<?xml version="1.0"?>
<div class="part">
	<h1 class="title">
		<p>Amanuensis Magicka</p>
	</h1>
	<div class="section-body">
		<div class="chapter">
			<h1 class="title">
				<p>Introduction</p>
			</h1>
			<div class="section-body">
				<p>From the mundane to the majestic, the items of power: magical wands, spell-books, and weapons have held people in awe for centuries, if not millenia. Their importance cannot be overweighed. Magical items provide common goals, inspire jealousy and envy, and set the tone and character of any setting. This book will present many unusual (and usual) magical items.</p>
				<p>While the traditional spheres of magic have been simplified for Apathy, we will consider the full (European Medieval) taxonomy of magics, here. Below we show the main (classical) divisions and how they are implemented within the game. Note that the majority of the classical magical scholias (sing. scholion) are variations of divination or conjuration.</p>
				<dl>
					<dt><p>Nigromancy</p></dt>
					<dd>
						<p>Also referred to as Necromancy or Black Magic. This scholion concerns itself with the summoning, conjuration, divination, control, harnessing, and construction of talismans, rings, amulets, and grimoires of the dead, angels, and demons. In particular Nigromancy has the following scholion within it.</p>
						<dl>
							<dt><p>Goeity</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The invocation (pleading) or evocation (control) of angels or demons.</p>
							</dd>
						</dl>
					</dd>
					<dt><p>Geomancy</p></dt>
					<dd>
						<p>Divinition from tossing, throwing, manipulating, or drawing in dirt, sand, or rock, at random or while in a trance. Includes the control of small-rodents, and the ability to summon, and manipulate the actions of rodents. Geomancy also includes the ability to summon and conjure spirits (animous) of the earth, albeit weak and small forms, thereof.</p>
						<dl>
							<dt><p>Ley Lines</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The ability to determine the location of Ley Lines, to find intersections of Ley Line powers. The ability to draw power from Ley Lines, in particular the points of intersection of Ley Lines. The ability to influence Ley Lines. The abilities to summon creatures, travel along (instantaneously), along the ports of a Ley Line.</p>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Sacred Geometry</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The enumeration and architectural concerns of the placements of geomantic objects, i.e., stones, megaliths etc. The carving of geometric figures for the control of local spirits, gods, and animous. The ability to determine the magical properties of the local geography and the best way to situate and use magic within a known terrain.</p>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Geomantic Figures</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The knowledge of specific runes, their configuration, and their manufacture for divinatory and evocatory reasons with respect to geomantic entities.</p>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Dowsing</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The use of tools such as scepters, rods, canes, forks, and plumbs to determine the local magical properties. Most specifically used in searching, and physical divinatory purposes. Dowsing is used as a bridge between Geomancy and the other gnostic and magickal capabilities. That is, any combination of the other scholia and Geomancy occurs through the use and discovery of objects and minerals via Dowsing with specific properties that engage those other scholia.</p>
							</dd>
						</dl>
					</dd>
					<dt><p>Hydromancy</p></dt>
					<dd>
						<p>The art of divination, transmutation, and control of the elemental property of liquids, water and life. Hydromancy includes the invocation of the animous of rivers, ponds, lakes, and wells (but not oceans or seas).</p>
						<dl>
							<dt><p>Lecanomancy</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The divination of events via the patterns of ripples in water. In particular, the control of such events by modifying the ripples. Normally also used with singing-water-bowls in order to prevent catastrophes or influence future events.</p>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Castronomancy</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The divination of events from the reflections of objects in water, mirrors, and crystalline objects. This is classical srying and is used most often with events occuring at the present or near past. Can also be used to determine events of the recent and less-than-recent past, or very inaccurately the future. Also the ability to transmute and augment the beauty and physical features of a creature. In very limited cases, the transportation of objects and things, or the communication to distant places.</p>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Baptism and Trial</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The sanctification, erasure, excommunication, destruction, and booning of objects by immersion or sprinkling with water or oil. Also, a method of gaining powers (permanently) by the passage of a Trial Of Swimming (actually, breath-holding and trance). The creation of blessed oils and waters with exotic and charming powers. The creation of places of safety, zones of invulnerability, and extradimensional areas.</p>
							</dd>
						</dl>
					</dd>
					<dt><p>Aeromancy</p></dt>
					<dd>
						<p>The divination and control of the aetheric element. Aeromancy is concerned with the invocation of the Gods of Wind. Of necessity, aeromancy requires devotion to a particular God, and specialization within the scholion, as the practise of magicks other than Aeromancy will bring immediate retribuation (of appropriate) form from whatever God was being invoked.</p>
						<p>The five Gods of Wind are (in no particular order):</p>
						<ul>
							<li><p>Tinia, a God of Lightning and Fear</p></li>
							<li><p>Adad, the God of Thunder, Lightning, and Aeromantic divination</p></li>
							<li><p>Amon, God of Wind, Fertility, Life, and Secrets</p></li>
							<li><p>Aditi, Goddess of Sky</p></li>
							<li><p>Agni, God Sun, Light, and Sky-Fire (of any kind)</p></li>
						</ul>
						<dl>
							<dt><p>Austromancy</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>Divination from the wind. The control of the wind (locally), in both intensity and direction. It is divided into two main categories:</p>
								<dl>
									<dt><p>Anemoscopy</p></dt>
									<dd><p>The direct control of the aetheric force, and creatures of pure intensity, fear, hatred, and anger.</p></dd>
									<dt><p>Nephomancy</p></dt>
									<dd><p>A bridging scholion between Aeromantic and other forces, particularly Hydromancy. Mainly focused on obscuration, obfuscation, confusion, indirection, shadows, drowning, and torture.</p></dd>
								</dl>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Ceraunoscopy</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The control of sound, thunderous events, lightning and elektrois (phlogisticular ameris conjurations). The creation and display of aetherically-based phlogisticular events. This differs from pyromancy which is the phlogisticular reduction, sublimation, and destruction of materials.</p>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Chaomancy and Cometomancy</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p></p>
							</dd>
							<dt><p></p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p></p>
							</dd>
							<dt><p></p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p></p>
							</dd>
						</dl>
					</dd>
				</dl>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
