<?xml version="1.0"?>
<table class="category" name="Armor" category="Equipment" sort="0">
  <thead name="titles" class="titles">
    <th width="l" class="Title">Name</th>
    <th width="l" class="None">MetaTag</th>
    <th width="l" minitable="yes" class="Table">Cost</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Note</th>
    <th width="2em" minitable="yes" class="Table">Encumbrance</th>
    <th width="2em" minitable="yes" class="Table">Piercing</th>
    <th width="2em" minitable="yes" class="Table">Slashing</th>
    <th width="2em" minitable="yes" class="Table">Crushing</th>
    <th width="l" class="Description">Description</th>
    <th width="l" class="None">Implementation</th>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>ALCAR Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>13</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>ALCAR (ALuminm-CARbon) plate is heavy armor developed for use in military assault and SWAT applications. It consists of a helmet, long-sleeved jacket, pants, goves, and boots. The suit is made of heavy ballistic nylon (similar to a "bulletproof vest") which is covered with form-fitting ALuminum-CARbon plates which cover the vast majority of the body.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Articulated Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>32700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Articulated plate represents the finest acheivement of the blacksmith-armorer. It consists of a full suit of form-fitting and overlapping metal plates that cover the entire body from head to toe. The superior joints in articulated plate provide much better mobility than standard full plate. Articulated plate must be made specifically for a given wearer.  Articulated plate covers the body completely in steel.  The joints are interlocked to provide no gaps for an opponent to exploit.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>BSP Linked Plate Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>29300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire x2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This armor was developed for situations requiring high levels of protection and excellent mobility where cost is of little concern.  Applications include strategic depolyment of covert action teams and elite personal security details (VIP bodyguards). It offers superior protection when compared to other armors of similar encumberance. This armor consists of a Spectra sleeved vest and matching pants. The entire suit is covered with polymeric plates reenforced with boron nanotubes. The thickness and shape of the plates is optimized to provide good mobility and protection.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ballistics Cloth (Heavy)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This is a heavy bulletproof vest with a replaceable composite trauma plate in the chest area.  When the armor becomes damaged it can be repaired by swapping in a new trauma plate for 1/4 the cost of new. This armor protects the torso, shoulders, and groin only.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ballistics Cloth (Light)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A very light bulletproof vest. This is typically used by undercover police or anyone that needs unobtrusive protection.  This protects the torso only.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ballistics Cloth (Standard)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A typical Kevlar bulletproof vest. Very commonly issued to soldiers and police.  Protects the torso only.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Banded Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6200</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A leather suit covered in overlapping and layered metal plates that curve around the body.  Popularized by the Roman Centurion.  This armor protects the torso, shoulders, upper arms, groin, and thighs.  It usually includes boots, but does not protect the lower leg.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Beast Leather</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Especially strong and thick leather armor.  The leather comes from unusually tough or large wild animals rather than domestic cattle, thus the leather is stronger.  Example:  Elephant or Rhino hide, wild boar, etc.  This armor is more difficult to make due to the toughness of the leather.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Biker's Leathers</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Leather suit worn by motorcycle racers. The suit is specially tailored to fit the rider while in the ridng position. Thus, size is considered to be zero when the rider is on a motorcycle.  Motorcycle leathers are often decorated with bright colors and brand or racing team logos, though they can be made in any color or design, from plain to wild.  The best leathers are custom-fit to the wearer's measurements.  Leathers cover the entire body, including a helmet for the head.  The helmet provides an extra 2/5/10 armor for the head only, but is good for one blow only.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Boron-Ceramic Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>27500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire x3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This high-tech armor is typically marketed to the defense business (private security contractors and mercenaries) as it is generally too heavy for use by typical police or military forces. It consists of incredibly tough dual-phase plate armor over a spectra inner suit. This armor is exceptionally resistant to battle damage and is capable of absorbing a remarkable amount of damage before becoming unusuable.  This armor protects the entire body except the hands.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Brigandine</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Brigandine armor is made from a heavy cloth or supple leather tunic that is fitted with a regular pattern of rectangular iron plates. It covers the body from the neck to mid-thigh, and also covers the shoulders.  It provides good protection but it is not particularly durable.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>CLAF Suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>CLAF armor is the trade name for &#x201C;Cross-Linked Aramid Fiber&#x201D;. This armor is a technologically superior &#x201C;bulletproof vest&#x201D; which covers the torso, shoulders, and groin area. CLAF armor is common amongst police in affluent precincts and is also issued to some frontline infantry troops fielded by wealthy nations</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>CLB&#x2013;WAF Suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>19000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>CLB-WAF, called &#x201C;Clubwaf&#x201D; or simply "Club" by it&#x2019;s wearers, is the most effective &#x201C;bulletproof vest&#x201D; type of armor developed. It consists of a Spectra-boron nanocomposite thread that is woven into armored cloth. This armor holds tightly against the body and delivers remarkable protection but is light enough to be used by beat cops and common soldiers.  This armor protects the torso, upper arms, groin, and thighs.  It does not protect the lower arms, hands, legs, or feet.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Carbon Fiber Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>17000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire, Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This is the modern equivalent of medieval plate mail armor. Unlike it's historical equivalent, this armor is made of lightweight composites rather than hand-hammered steel. It also incorporates flexible joints which means that it is nearly universal in fitment. It consists of high saturation 3D carbon fiber matix plates impregnated with semimetallic resins. This armor is typically used by SWAT and Military units.  Carbon Fiber Plate covers the entire body, including a helmet, boots, and gauntlets.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ceramic Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>24800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire x3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Ceramic Plate armor was developed as an outgrowth of vehicle armor research adapted for human use. Ceramic Plate consists of large, scuplted plates that closely fit the body. The joints are unarmored. Though it is an uncommon choice for military or police use, it is very popular amonst freelance mercenaries and adventurers due to its excellent fire resistance.  It is commonly used for bomb disposal technicians where its heavy weight is justifiable and its fire resistance is a major plus.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Chain Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Chain mail consists of an armored vest (Hauberk), hood (coif), and sometimes pants. The armor is a very flexible fabric that is made of thousands of interlocking metal rings. Typically this is worn over padded armor as the rings are known for chafing against bare skin.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Chain and Brigandine</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A chain mail suit covered with thick metal plates which add extra protection to the shoulders, torso, and thighs.  This is much more durable than standard brigandine because it is based on a chain shirt rather than a cloth one.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Cloth</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Heavy clothing that is not true "military armor" but is nonetheless designed for protection from enviornmental or occupational hazards.  For example, a woodsman's coveralls, welder's suit, blacksmith's apron, etc.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Densematter Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>30000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire x3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>17</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Densematter plate is extremely heavy plate armor which is made from metallic abotex which has been artificially densified using a particle accelerator.  It is extremely heavy and bulky but offers excellent damage blocking capability.  Its high cost and weight tends to restrict its use to special ops and bomb squads.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Double Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Double Mail is made from interlinked rings, similar to chain mail.  However, double mail uses a larger number of rings per unit area to provide additional resistance to being cut or punctured.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Elven Chain Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>17800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Supposedly invented by Elvish armorers, this is a superior form of chain mail made from exceptionally fine, hard steel rings that are interlinked in three dimensions and individually case-hardened.  It provides better protection than double mail, but it is lighter and easier to wear.  Its cheif disadvantage is its high cost.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Elysian Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>13300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This type of plate armor is made from thin and lightweight (but strong) metals including mithril, Damasacus steel, and meteoric iron.  It covers the majority of the body with solid metal plates.  It provides excellent armor protection with very little weight compared to traditional plate armor.  Elysian plate typically includes a helmet, gauntlets, and greaves.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Fiberglass Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Fiberglass Plate is a modern armor designed for duty in extremely hazardous enviornments, including terrorist-response scenarios where unconventional weapons or chemical/biological agents may be present.  It is also used as personal protective equipment in dangerous areas such as Hazmat response and expermental research facilities involving dangerous chemicals, or electricial hazards.  It is made entirely from synthetic composites and plastics, with no metal of any kind.  Fiberglass plate consists of a hazmat-safe inner suit which covers the body from head to toe.  The inner suit is covered with removable hard plates which protect the torso, shoulders, upper arms, thighs, calves, and forearms.  The hard plates are modular and removable (similar to football padding), to allow for easy repair and decontamination in the field.  Fiberglass plate includes a helmet with an integral "gas mask" using replaceable cartridges.  The inner suit is waterproof.  Fiberglass plate reduces incoming electrical damage (such as lightning magic) by 25%.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Field Plate aka 3/4 plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>13</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Field Plate is a practical adaptation of full plate armor.  It delivers nearly the same protection, but it is lighter and less expensive.  Field plate encases the body nearly completely in a layer of steel--yet, it is light enough to allow a wide range of combat activities.  Field Plate consists of a chain mail suit which covers the entire body which is then covered with form-fitting steel plates and a heavy steel helmet.  Field plate does not cover the hands, feet, or face.  The inside of joints and certian other spots (armpit, back of the knee, crotch, ankle, etc.) are protected by the chain mail only--these areas are not covered with plates.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Fishback Ceramic</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This armor was designed for special-purpose military use.  It consists of a coat and pants fashioned from a tough synthetic cloth which is then covered with a layer of fire-retardant NOMEX.  The outer layer of the armor is covered with interlocking ceramic tiles.  These tiles resemble fish scales, hence the name.  Becasue fishback armor is designed like ordinary clothing (jacket and pants) it is very nearly "one size fits all", and can be put on or taken off quickly and easily.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Fishback Steel</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This armor is constructed like Fishback Ceramic armor except it uses steel plates rather than ceramic ones.  This makes it heavier, but also less expensive.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Flak Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A thick, bulky vest that is padded and contains iron plates that cover vital areas of the chest and groin. (Millitary style as used in WWII and Vietnam)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Forged Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>27300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>17</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Forged plate is a special sort of plate mail.  It is made in the same fashion, except the steel used is of much higher quality, necssitating high-grade iron ore, a very hot forge, and secret alloying ingredients that are worked into the steel by a master blacksmith.  This armor has the same size and wieght as full plate but the stronger plates can withstand more damge before yielding.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Full Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Full plate is the classic garb of the "Knight in Shining Armor".  It consists of a head-to-toe covering of form-fitting steel plates built over an inner suit of chain mail.  Full plate covers about 95% of the body, with only the tiniest of gaps existing between the fingers and under the armpit.  This armor includes a helmet, gauntlets, and greaves.  It is custom-fitted to the wearer.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Furs</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>200</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>cold weather clothing made from leather and layers of animal furs.  Modern versions exist which are made with synthetic insulation instead of (or in addition to) actual fur.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>G-Alloy Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>329700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire x5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>20</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>24</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Highly advanced semimetallic armor oriented on the molecular level</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Gi</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>martial arts costume</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>HC Aramid Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>42000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire, Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>16</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Heavy hard armor made from hard-cast semimetallic composite plates</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Hakama (cotton)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>200</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>martial arts costume</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Hakama (silk)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>martial arts costume</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Half Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Half plate was developed with the need to equip warriors with better armor than chain mail, without the expense and need for custom-fitting of a true suit of plate.  Half Plate consists of a chain mail suit whose vital areas are topped with large, non-interlocking steel plates.  Because this armor is not articulated, it is much less expensive than true plate mail.  The large steel plates spread out the impact of blows, providing much better protection than simple chain mail or scale mail.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Hard Leather</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Hard Leather armor is made in the same manner as soft leather, except that the main sections:  chest, back, shoulders, and thighs are double or even triple-layered.  The outer layer is made from thick leather that has been repeatedly boiled and treated to make it stiff and inflexible.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Heavy Jacket</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>50</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Any sort of unusually thick clothing&#x2013;like a parka, leather jacket, heavy denim, etc.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Heavy Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>33100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>18</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>16</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>19</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Heavy Plate armor is made in the same fashion as full plate mail, except the metal plates are thicker and heavier for better protection at the expense of weight.  Armor of this sort is custom-made for warriors strong enough to bear its great weight.  The armor covers the body head-to-toe including custom-fitted gauntlets, helmet, and greaves.  The helmet is bolted to the armor to prevent the neck from being broken.  Heavy Plate is often embelished with engraving, reenforcing ridges, spikes, and similar features.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Jack/gravel coat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This armor is often crude and may even be home-made before leaving for battle.  It consists of a cloak or jacket made of heavy cloth or perhaps leather secured with leather straps. The surface is covered with whatever hard objects may be available:  small bits of metal or bone are sewn to the backing.  Likewise, small stones, shells, or tiny bits of bone, wood, or metal may be bonded to it using pitch or other forms of glue.  This armor typically covers the torso only.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Kevlar</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2200</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Kevlar clothing is designed to be inconspicuous for use by diplomats, religious leaders, or other public figures.  It is not intended for full-on combat use, but to provide a hidden layer of protection against an assassination attempt.  The kevlar "bulletproof vest" material is either provided like "long underwear" or may also be built-into a dress or suit.  The former type can be used as an undersuit with heavier armor.  This armor must be tailored to the wearer, otherwise the encumberance is +1.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Knitted Steel</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Knitted steel resembles chain mail from a disance, except its construction is very different.  It is made by weaving stiff steel wire into a very thick cloth.  Normally this is done by machine, hence the low cost.  It can be made manually with enough effort (quadruple the price for Archaic time periods).  Knitted steel consists of a hauberk covering the torso, shoulders, and extending to just above the knees.  It does not protect the head, arms, lower legs, or feet.  It likewise does not protect the groin from an upward blow.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Light Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A partial plate suit. It consists of a breast plate, helmet, shoulder plates and greaves.  Sometime plates for the waist/thighs or elbow cops are included. The plates are cut to maximize movement.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Linked Metal</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This is a special armored vest, used as secondary armor for millitary applications&#x2013;a network of metal plates over a cloth vest.  Soldiers who are expected to be "out in the open" can quickly don the vest over their uniform or other armor for a little added protection.  It is used by crews of vehicles such as tanks, ships, or mecha when someone must "go outside" when enemy fire is expected.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Mylar</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This is a thin metalized plastic-film armor which is specifically designed to protect against cutting attacks.  This armor consists of a jacket and pants, covering the torso, arms, and legs.  Mylar armor is very difficult to cut.  It is an ideal under-layer when heavy combat is likely.  However, once the Mylar armor has been penetrated, the cut will quickly "run", leaving the armor irreperably damaged.  Mylar armor loses its effectiveness once it has been penetrated one time.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Nomex</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>250</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire x 2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Tough clothing made from NOMEX fibers&#x2014;designed for fire protection. Worn by firefighters and emergency workers.  It is not designed for combat use, though it is a common underlayment for heavy armor in assault missions.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>PACA Mesh suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>The PACA suit is designed for millitary scout use, air crews, and paratrooper applications where mobility and light weight are very important.  This armor resembles ordinary BDU's or faigues made from tough armored fibers and including composite plastic plates in key areas.  This armor covers the body except for hands, feet, and head.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>PLCALF Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>28900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire, Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>13</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Same as the above, with additional polymeric plates in key areas. This is the heaviest armor used by ultramodern SWAT forces.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Padded</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This is a simple padded clothing which may be used alone or as an underlayment beneath other armor, such as chain.  Padded armor usually has a quilted construction including multiple layers of thick fur, stuffing, and other soft materials.  It covers the torso and upper legs only.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Polymer Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This is mass-produced combat armor for frontline infantry troops.  It is mass-maunfactured to be "one size fits all".  It is light hard armor made from advanced polymeric plates over a kevlar jacket and pants.  The plates are attached with quick-rlease fasteners to allow for repair and injury treatment on the battlefield.  This armor does not cover the head, hands, or feet.  It is designed to be used in conjunction with standard millitary-issue helmets, boots, etc.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>R-Polymer Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This armor is sized for the wearer by use of a 3-D computerized scanner.  Special plastic panels are formed to fit to the wearer's body scan.  These plates contain steel inserts for additional durability, and are fitted to a thin spectra undersuit.  This armor includes a helmet and covers the entire body.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>RIR Hazard Suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Designed for Hazmat response, but often used for counter-insurgency operations when facing chemical or biological weapons, this armor is made to withstand weapon attacks as well as dangerous chemical agents.  The suit covers the entire body, and is made from rubber-impregnated polyester fabric filled with tiny dogbone-shaped interlocking metal bars.  The armored fabric is specially designed to resist cutting and tearing.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Racer's Suit/Pilot's suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire x 2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Full body jumpsuit made of fireproof materials. Designed to save the life of race car drivers, pilots, etc, in the event of a crash or fire.  This includes special gloves, shoes, and helmet; all pieces are specially made and treated to resist fire.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Reinforced Leather</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1200</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Reinforced leather is a suit of hard leather that is upgraded (and somtimes decorated with) metal details including studs, spikes, rivets, and small reenforcing straps.  The edges of the leather plates are often trimmed with metal inlay.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ring Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Large metal rings held together with leather straps</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Riot Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This is the "standard" SWAT-team armor: Ballistics cloth with metal plates in key locations.  It covers the head, torso, upper arms, and the legs.  The metal plates are removable to allow for easy replacement and repair.  This armor is fairly bulky.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>SEB Hard Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>22000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Boron-composite plates over a spectra undersuit. Rare, generally used by special forces or elite units.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>SPECTRA</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>22700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>The Spectra suit is designed to be the ultimate "undercover" armor for VIP protection.  It is tailored to the wearer specifically, and covers the entire body except the head/neck, hands, and feet.  The armor is very flexible yet stands up well to piercing and slashing--providing solid defense against shooting and stabbing.  Spectra armor is designed to be difficult to see.  When worn under a well-made suit, it is very difficult to see if someone is wearing this armor.  This handy feature makes this a popular "under-armor" for heavy combat conditions.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>SPECTRA Tactical Vest</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This is a modernized version of the "bulletproof vest" made from the improved SPECTRA material.  It covers the torso, neck, shoulders, upper arms, and groin.  The chest and back are equipped with a composite trauma plate for extra protection.  This armor usually comes equipped with many pockets and attachment clips for military gear (ammunition magazines, sidearms, grenades, etc.)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Scale Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Hard leather armor covered in overlapping metal scales</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Scale-over-Chain</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Scale-Over-Chain is made by riveting or tying overlapping small metal plates to a chain mail suit.  The armor covers the body the same as chain mail, with the added benefit of an extra layer of metal covering the majority of the suit.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Silk</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Armored robes made from woven silk threads.  This armor is popular with practioners of ancient martial arts.  It is also popular for cat-burgulars and magicians who need armor while maintaining freedom of movement.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Soft Leather</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Armored clothing made of pieces of thick, soft, leather sewn together.  Soft leather covers the torso, shoulders, groin, and thighs.  Boots and/or gloves are sometimes included.  The lower leg and lower arm are usually not covered, though some suits do cover these areas (add $250 cost).</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Sorbothene</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This is special purpose armor designed to cushion shock and impact.  It is typically used by bomb squads and mecha or test aircraft pilots.  The sole purpose of this armor is to add crushing protection to other armor.  Sorbothene is a shock-damping suit made from a special rubber material.  It resembles a diver's wetsuit, and covers the entire body except the head, feet, and hands.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Splint Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2600</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Splint mail consists of soft leather armor which is reenforced with paralell vertical bands of iron that are sewn or riveted to the leather.  Splint mail covers the torso, shoulders, upper arms, and thighs.  Boots and gloves may or may not be included.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Steel Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Steel plate is modern plate mail armor, produced in a factory stamping-line rather than being hand-fitted by a master blacksmith.  It consists of a synthetic undersuit (typically nylon), which is covered with formed steel plates.  The suit covers the entire body, but gaps between the plates and the backs of joints are generally not armored.  Steel plate does not cover the head, hands, or feet.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Stripped-Leather Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Stripped-leather armor consists of a soft leather underlayment with multiple layers of hard leather straps held on by metallic buckles and/or rings. Creaks and makes noise when moving.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Tai Chi suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>250</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>martial arts costume</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Wyrmhide</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Wyrmhide is the highest form of leather armor.  It is fabricated similar to plate armor, except it is made from only the toughest leather available, such as dragon hide.  Thinner leather is used to form a complete suit, while the thickest and strongest pieces are worked into plates that cover the entire body, except for the insides of joints.  Wyrmhide armor includes a skullcap or helmet, gloves and boots and thus covers the entire body.  Wyrmhide can have special properties such as fire resistance depending on the type of leather it was made from.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
