<?xml version="1.0"?>
<div class="chapter" timeperiod="*" category="Equipment">
  <h1 class="title">
    <p>Equipment</p>
  </h1>
  <div class="section-body">
    <div class="section">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Melee</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body">
        <p>Most weapons have a single damage type.  For example, a weapon with "P" next to the damage roll deals Piercing damage.  Some weapons may deal different damage types depending on how the weapon is used.  For example, the Fireman's Axe is P/S.  Striking with the axe blade deals S damage while striking with the spike on the back of the head deals P damage. For damage type listed as X/Y, the weapon can deal either type of damage for a given attack, but not both at the same time. For a P/S weapon, the attcker can choose to do a P or S attack.
        STR Req is the minimum strength required to wield the weapon. For every point of STR under Min. STR, the attack gets -1 damage and -2 to strike/parry. If the MSR is met, for every point of STR over 8 add one point of damage to the raw roll, up to a maximum of the MSB (Max Strength Bonus) A raw bonus is always indicated with square brackets. So <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">4</span><span class="kind"/></span> would be a normal <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> roll, with an additional 4 added to the final result. When wielding a 1-H weapon with two hands, assume the wielder has +3 STR.</p>
        <dl class="description-list">
          <dt>
            <p>Hands</p>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Number of hands required to use the weapon</p>
          </dd>
          <dt>
            <p>Rec</p>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Number of actions it takes to recover after attacking with the weapon. This many actions must be spent to get the weapon ready for attack again.  This generally applies to very large or heavy weapons only.</p>
          </dd>
          <dt>
            <p>Enc</p>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Represents the weight of the weapon. This consumes Encumbrance just like armor. Only use this when the weapon is actually being used.</p>
          </dd>
          <dt>
            <p>Range</p>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>the effective reach of the weapon in feet. If your target is beyond your range, you cannot strike them. You can spend an action to gain range on your opponent. If your target is closer than 1/2 range, then you are at -6 to strike the target.</p>
          </dd>
        </dl>
        <div class="section" timeperiod="-1500">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Options for Melee Weapons</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <p>Prices listed are for basic weapons with enough durability to function in real combat situations. They are made for combat use but are not ornately decorated or of unusual quality. However, superior quality weapons are available at higher cost.  Superior quality melee weapons get a bonus to strike and damage.  The bonus can range from +1 to a maximum of +3.  Furthermore, superior quality weapons are more durable (harder to break, dull, or wear out) than their common equivalents.  Superior quality weapons are created using special materials or unusually skillful craftsmanship (or a combination of the two).  The table below provides the cost for these weapons.  Note that superior quality weapons often feature artistic embelishments such as fine engraving, precious metal hand-guards, or jewel-encrusted hilts.  These features, if present, add to the value of the weapon beyond that noted in the table.  Higher quality ranged weapons (such as crossbows and even firearms) are also available.  The bonus to higher quality ranged weapons applies to the strike roll only, not damage.  Higher quality ammunition (arrows, bolts, darts, and bullets) affect damage only, and not strike rolls.  Note that these bonuses are due to the inherent quality of the weapon such as balance, sharpness, material, and shape.  They are not magical in nature.  Magical weapons may have other bonuses or effects in addition to the physical quality of the weapon.</p>
            <div class="figure">
              <table class="display-table">
                <caption>
                  <p>Options for melee weapon construction</p>
                </caption>
                <thead>
                  <th>
                    <p>Quality</p>
                  </th>
                  <th>
                    <p>Bonus</p>
                  </th>
                  <th>
                    <p>Cost factor</p>
                  </th>
                  <th>
                    <p>Rarity</p>
                  </th>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                  <tr>
                    <td>
                      <p>Exceptional Quality</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>+1</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>double cost</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>Adds 1 to rarity</p>
                    </td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>
                      <p>Master Quality</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>+2</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>10 times cost</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>Adds 3 to rarity</p>
                    </td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>
                      <p>Legendary Quality</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>+3</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>100 times cost</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>Adds 5 to rarity</p>
                    </td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>
                      <p>Vibro-edge (bladed only)</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>+10 AP</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>5 times cost</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>ULTRAMODERN</p>
                    </td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>
                      <p>Wooden Training</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>1/2 damage, C</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>
                        <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
                          <mrow>
                            <msup>
                              <mfrac>
                                <mn>1</mn>
                                <mn>10</mn>
                              </mfrac>
                              <mi>th</mi>
                            </msup>
                            <mi>cost</mi>
                          </mrow>
                        </math>
                      </p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>Common</p>
                    </td>
                  </tr>
                </tbody>
              </table>
            </div>
            <p>For other than normal sized weapons (mecha, etc.), all stats are<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mn>2</mn><mrow><mi>Size</mi><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup></math>normal. This applies to strength requirement, strength bonus, damage dice number, etc.</p>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Axes</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Axes">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Axes.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Axes</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Blunt</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Blunt">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Blunt.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Blunt</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Body</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Body">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Body.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Body</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Chained</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Chained">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Chained.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Chained</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Exotic</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Exotic">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Exotic.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Exotic</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Knives</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Knives">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Knives.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Knives</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Large Swords</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Large_Swords">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Large_Swords.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Large_Swords</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section" timeperiod="2050">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Monofilament</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <p>The Monofilament Whip is length of metallic, diamondoid, or silicoid wire that is the thickness of a single molecule, with a weight on one end. The Archaic Weapon&#x2014;Chain skill is used. A skill roll of 4 or less is considered a critical failure (instead of the normal 1). This modified critical failure is there for people who are skilled. Those who are not get a critical failure on a 9 or below.</p>
            <p>The recover time of the Monofilament Whip cannot be reduced by strength, and will always require a 1 action to recover from safely. The user can attempt to reduce the recover time to 0, but there is a 50% chance that the user will strike himself with the whip dealing full damage to himself.</p>
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Monofilament" timeperiod="2100" category="Monofilament">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Monofilament.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Monofilament</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section" timeperiod="2100">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Plasma</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <p>Plasma weapons are designed for a specific set of modifications. These are:</p>
            <div class="figure">
              <table class="display-table">
                <caption>
                  <p>Plasma Weapon Modifiers</p>
                </caption>
                <thead>
                  <th>
                    <p>Type</p>
                  </th>
                  <th width="2.5in">
                    <p>Effect</p>
                  </th>
                  <th>
                    <p>Cost Factor</p>
                  </th>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                  <tr>
                    <td>
                      <p>High temperature</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>Blade is hotter than normal, dealing +1 damage, can be purchased up to 3 times (each time double cost)</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>x2</p>
                    </td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>
                      <p>Over powered field</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>The magnetic field is stronger than normal, giving a +5 STR when breaking from a lock</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>x2</p>
                    </td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>
                      <p>High speed blade</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>The plasma weapon can be turned on in 0 actions</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>x1.5</p>
                    </td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>
                      <p>Power burst</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>Once per minute the blade&#x2019;s power can be increased to deal +3 damage</p>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                      <p>x1.5</p>
                    </td>
                  </tr>
                </tbody>
              </table>
            </div>
            <div class="section" category="Plasma" timeperiod="2050">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Notes: specific to Plasma Weapons</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <ul class="itemized-list">
                  <li>
                    <p>Plasma weapons are a bladeless handle (typically looks like a normal weapon handle or a flashlight) from which a glowing blade of extremely hot plasma vents forth. The plasma is held in the shape of a cylinder (or blade) by a magnetic field. They take an action to turn on.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Due to the difference between using a plasma weapon verses normal weapons, they require the Archaic Weapons - Energy skill to use. Anyone can use their normal sword skill (or axe skill respectively) but will get a critical failure on a 4 or below (instead of the normal 1).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Plasma weapons cannot be parried by non-plasma weapons, likewise, they cannot parry non-plasma weapons. Similarly, shields cannot block plasma weapons. Plasma weapons can parry other plasma weapons, and force fields protect against them as normal.  If a plasma weapon comes in contact with another one, there is a 25 percent chance the magnetic fields of the blades will lock together. It is easy to tell if combatants are locked as an extremely bright glow emanates from the contact point of the weapons. Getting out of a lock requires an action where a strength contest ensues. If there is more than a difference of 8 between the two strength rolls, the lock is broken and the loser loses his or her next action. If no break occurs, the combatants must attempt again on the next action. Either combatant in a lock can turn off their weapon, in which case he or she automatically loses the lock challenge.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>One side effect of having a magnetic field around the blade, is that it is possible to parry projectile energy attacks (such as shots from a beam rifle). Doing so the wielder is at a -8.</p>
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Polearms</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Polearms">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Polearms.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Polearms</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section" timeperiod="2000" catgory="Rocket Assisted">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Rocket Assisted</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <p>Rocket-assisted weapons are modern versions of traditional archaic weapons. They have small rocket motors contained in the weapon. When the weapon is swung, the motor ignites, giving extra force to the blow. They are used with the same skill as normal archaic weapons.</p>
            <p>If such a weapon is used, and the target is missed, then it takes an extra two actions to recover. If the target is hit, or if the blow is parried or blocked, then it takes the normal time to recover.</p>
            <p>When using rocket assisted weapons, you need an extra success to parry melee attacks. (At least two better than attacker.)</p>
            <p>Each weapon can store up to 5 &#x201C;rocket charges.&#x201D; When these are used up, they must be refilled before the weapon can be used. Each charge costs $100 to refill.</p>
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Rocket-Assisted">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Rocket-Assisted.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Rocket-Assisted</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Staves</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Staves">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Staves.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Staves</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Thrown</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Melee/Thrown">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Melee/Thrown.xhtml">Equipment/Melee/Thrown</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="section" timeperiod="1600" category="Firearms">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Firearms &amp; Guns</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body">
        <p>The following table lists common options for Hand Weapons and Long Guns.</p>
        <div class="figure">
          <table class="display-table">
            <caption>
              <p>Options for firearms</p>
            </caption>
            <thead>
              <th>
                <p>Option</p>
              </th>
              <th width="2.5in">
                <p>Effect</p>
              </th>
              <th>
                <p>Cost</p>
              </th>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <p>Laser Sight</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>A laser sight projects a colored dot (normally red, but could also be green or infa-red) at the approximate point of impact of the firearm.  Laser sights can be added to any sort of firearm including hand guns, rifles, and submachine guns.  The weapon is used by placing the red dot on the target and then pulling the trigger.  Because the laser shines in a straight line instead of the ballistic curve the bullet actually takes, laser sights are only effective for short ranges before the bullet slows down and drops.  The laser sight provides +1 to strike when at ranges under 100 yards.  Note that smoke, mist, and cover can obscure the laser dot, which may make the laser sight ineffective.</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>$200</p>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <p>Compensated Barrel</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>A compensator is an attachment or modification to a weapon's barrel which adds a series of upward-facing vents to the top of the barrel.  These vents help to keep the muzzle on-target when firing multiple shots.  The compensator reduces recoil and also helps keep the muzzle from jumping higher as the gun is fired.  Adding a Compensated barrel reduces the strength requirement of the gun by 1, and makes the gun significantly louder.  Also, for automatic weapons fired in burst-fire: 50% of the missing bullets now hit.</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>+20%</p>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <p>Optical Scope</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>This is a typical hunting scope, also known as a telescopic sight.  Scopes may be fitted to any sort of rifle, pistol, shotgun, or revolver.  They are most commonly fitted to rifles.  Such a scope provides +2 to strike for single aimed shots.  Note that the presence of a scope makes it much more difficult to conceal or draw a handgun.</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>$300</p>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <p>Sniper Scope</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>The Sniper Scope is a very high quality optical sight designed for very high magnification, range-finding, and the best possible sight picture.  Scopes of this sort are used by long-distance competition shooters, hunters, and military snipers.  This gives extra +3 to strike for single aimed shots and is effective to extreme ranges.  Superior models are available that offer a higher bonus.  For each +1 beyond the standard, double the price.  (+4 = $4,000, +5 = $8,000, etc.)  Scopes of this sort are too large to mount to a handgun.  They are only available for rifles.</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>$2000</p>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <p>Weighted Barrel</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>Gives +1 to strike on non-aim shots only; Lower str req by 1; Makes gun hard to conceal.</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>+10%</p>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <p>Flash Suppressor</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>Hides muzzle flash.  CANNOT be used with compensated barrel.</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>+5%</p>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <p>Silencer</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>Hides muzzle flash and makes gun nearly silent.  Very large&#x2014;no concealment.</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>+15%</p>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <p>Match Trigger</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>Gives +1 to strike for single aimed shots.  Cannot be added to full-auto weapons.</p>
                </td>
                <td>
                  <p>$200</p>
                </td>
              </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>
        </div>
        <div class="section" category="Firearms">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Hand Weapons</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="section" timeperiod="1850">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Revolvers</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Revolvers are a very common type of pistol (hand gun) which carry multiple cartridges (usually 6) in a rotating cylinder.  Revolvers are usually more reliable and durable than automatic pistols due to their simpler mechanical construction and fewer moving parts.  This gives all revolvers a +1 bonus to strike.  It also means that revolvers are often available in larger (heavier) calibers than automatic pistols, and are capable of firing speciality ammunition which may not feed correctly in an automatic.  The downside to revolvers is their low ammunition capacity, and the time required to reload.  Normally it takes 1 action per cartridge to reload a revolver unless a speedloader is used.  A speedloader can be purchased seperatley.  Speedloaders are small devices which hold a full cylinder's load of cartridges and allow them to be loaded into the revolver all at once.  A speedloader can fully load a revolver in 1 action.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Pistols</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Here, a "pistol" is a semi-automatic pistol, or simply an "automatic".  Automatic pistols differ from revolvers in that they carry a "stack" of cartridges in a removable magazine.  The recoil force of firing one bullet is used to automatically eject the spent casing and to reload a fresh one.  Automatic pistols have a higher ammunition capacity than revolvers do and are also much faster to reload.  Replacing a magazine takes only 1 action.  Extra magazines cost $<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mn>150</mn><mo>&#xD7;</mo><mfrac><mi>Cost of Gun</mi><mn>1000</mn></mfrac></mrow></math> each. High-capacity magazines are available which hold 50% more rounds, but cost twice as much.  Becasue automatic pistols depend on the force of one shot to load the next one, they can malfunction when firing speciality ammunition.  However, this shortcoming is often overlooked due to the automatic's much higher capacity and ease of reloading.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Hunting Pistols</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Hunting pistols are those specifically designed for hunting applications.  They fire large, powerful cartridges (often a rifle cartridge) designed to deliver 1-shot kills on game.  Hunting pistols may be Automatics, revolvers, or special designs including break-open or bolt action.  These handguns typically have minimal ammunition capacity, and are often large and difficult to conceal.  It is common to equip this type of handgun with a scope for long-distance shots.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Heavy Pistols</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Heavy Pistols are similar to hunting pistols in that they fire very damaging powerful cartridges.  However Heavy Pistols are built for combat use and thus they typically have larger ammunition capacities than a hunting gun.  Normal rules apply for magazines, etc. These are generally rare weapons.  The larger models are intended for use for (and against) cyborgs, and thus have high strength requirements.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Gyrojet and Rocket Handguns</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>These are very rare weapons. They are physically similar to automatics (pistols) but the cartridges are essentially tiny unguided rockets. Firing the gun ignites the rocket projectile which then flies towards the target.  Firing a Gyrojet gun is no louder than opening a soda can.  The "woosh" of the rocket is much quieter than the crack or "bang" associated with firing a traditional gun.  Becasue the rocket projectile accelerates on its way downrange, damage at ranges less than 20 feet is half of normal. Damage at ranges greater than 50 feet is +2 per die. Accuracy is a -1 to strike, plus a -1 for every 10 feet to the target (round down). These guns have virtually no recoil. Gyrojet carbines are an available option, however, the cost is an additional $500, and the accuracy is at +1 to strike. Carbines have double the ammunition capacity of the pistol version.  Smaller caliber gyrojets are kinetic weapons.  The 13mm caliber gyrojet rockets are large enough to carry a tiny explosive charge; these weapons have the Fire effect.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Firearms_and_Guns-Hand_Weapons">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Firearms_and_Guns-Hand_Weapons.xhtml">Equipment/Firearms_and_Guns-Hand_Weapons</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Long Weapons</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Sporting Rifles</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Sporting rifles are commonly available and are used for hunting and target shooting.  Most sporting rifle are bolt action and have an internal (non-detachable) magazine. They can fire one round per action.  .22 LR are commonly bolt action or semiautomatic (10 shot capacity).  It is possible to find semiautomatic sporting rifles in larger calibers, but these are unusual, and substantially more expensive.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Big Game Rifles</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Big game rifles fire specialized high power cartridges, and were developed for hunting large and dangerous animals including bear, rhinocerous, lion, and elephant.  They are designed to be rugged and reliable in the face of a charging bull.  The classic big-game rifle is the "double rifle".  These are constructed with two side-by-side barrels similar to a classic shotgun.  Double rifles have two completely seperate firing mechanisms, so even if one round misfires or misses--or the gun experiences a mechanical failure--a second shot is instantly available.  These rifles are often engraved and customized to the owner's specifications, and many of them are fantastically expensive.  All Big Game Rifles deal double the listed damage against unarmored targets. They can only use bronze and soft-point ammunition with standard powder.  (Big game cartridges are already assumed to be loaded to the maximum level possible).</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Anti-armor Rifles</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Anti-Armor weapons were developed from the need to engage armored targets including tanks and cyborgs with ordinary soldiers.  These weapons are usually used with armor-piercing ammunation for military applications, but they are also used by civilans for ultra-long-range target shooting.  These weapons resemble hugely oversized sporting rifles, often with special features designed to reduce recoil.  The listed strength requirement is for firing the weapon off the ground (prone, with bipod) or on a hard mount (such as mounted to a Humvee or Tank); if used offhand, add an additional 10 to the minium strength.</p>
                <div class="note">
                  <p>These weapons are very large and heavy; at least 30 lbs. if not 70&#x2013;80 lbs. or more. They are five to eight feet long.</p>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Sniper Rifles</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Sniper rifles are usually special versions of the standard sporting or military rifle, though some purpose-built models exist as well.  They are designed for precision above all else.  All sniper rifles are +1 to strike, and special models are available with additional bonuses (at additional cost).  Sniper rifles are usually equipped with a scope, which provides an additional bonus.  Most sniper rifles fire ordinary ammunition, like a sporting rifle.  The .50 BMG can fire speciality ammunation including AP or incindary.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Sporting Shotguns</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Sporting shotguns are available in many types.  The classic design has two barrels (side-by-side or over &amp; under) and are breech-loading.  These shotguns can fire a 2 round burst by pulling both triggers simultaneously.  Shotguns like this are used for shooting sports (Trap or Skeet), as well as for hunting.  Most modern shotguns have a single barrel and a tubular magazine, holding 4-6 rounds.  These shotguns may be either semiautomatic or pump-action.  These shotguns are commonly used for hunting or combat.  This type of shotgun cannot fire a burst.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Military Shotguns</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>These are not generally available to non-military personell.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Submachine Pistol</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>These weapons are all at a -1 to strike.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Submachine Gun</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>These weapons are all at a -2 to strike. This can be reduced by one by doubling the cost, down to a -0 to strike.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Assault Rifles</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Assault rifles are at a -1 to strike. This can be reduced by one by doubling the cost, down to a -0 to strike.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Machine Guns</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Machine guns use the Heavy Weapons skill, and are set up and fired from a fixed position, such as a vehicle mount or defensive emplacement.  A machine gunner is usually attended by a loader, who keeps ammunition fed to the gun and provides covering fire with his own weapon when required.  While it is possible to hold a machine gun and fire it, this is very difficult and imparts a -6 to strike.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Archaic Long-arms</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Blunderbuss' deal half damage against armor. Muskets are at a -1 to strike.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Firearms_and_Guns-Long_Guns">
              <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Firearms_and_Guns-Long_Guns.xhtml">Equipment/Firearms_and_Guns-Long_Guns</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section" timeperiod="1600">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Heavy Weapons</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body"/>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Mounted Weapons &amp; Guns</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body"/>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="section" timeperiod="2050" category="Energy Weapons">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Energy Weapons</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body">
        <p>Most energy weapons are powered by a battery pack. These are interchangable between weapons. Energy within the packs is consumed as the weapon is fired, like normal bullets. They are called &#x201C;batts&#x201D; or &#x201C;b-paks&#x201D; in slang. B-paks store energy in units of EU. Different weapons consume EU at different rates. Smaller weapons use 1 EU per shot. Larger weapons might use more. Pistols can hold ONE pack. Rifles/cannons can usually hold 3. B-paks can be recharged. Recharging a pack takes about thirty seconds per EU that has been used. As a general rule, it costs $1 per EU to have pack recharged. HD paks require special equipment to charge and these cost about $1.50 per EU to charge.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="section">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Ranged</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body">
        <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Ranged">
          <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Ranged.xhtml">Equipment/Ranged</a>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="section">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Ammunition</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body" timeperiod="*">
        <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Ammunition">
          <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Ammunition.xhtml">Equipment/Ammunition</a>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="section">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Armor</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body">
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Basics for Armor and Damage</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <ul class="itemized-list">
              <li>
                <p>Armor has 3 main values: Piercing, slashing, and crushing. Armor values are represented by 3 numbers separated by slashes (represented by: P/S/C; piercing/slashing/crushing). Example: Armor with values of 4/3/7 would have 4 points of protection vs. Piercing, 3 vs. Slashing, and 7 vs. crushing damage.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Armor does not protect from Undefined (U) or Direct (D).</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>A characters Base Armor is the only thing that can protect vs. U damage. Nothing can protect against D damage.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>All non D/U damage has an associated damage type to is; either P, S, or C. Subtract all matching armor values of the character from the damage being done. If the damage value is still above 0, then the character takes that amount of damage.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>A weapon with an armor piercing (AP) attack will list the amount of AP it has. Subtract this AP number from all of the armors damage values when determining its protection against the attack. This cannot drop the armors value below 0.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>GMs determine when armor is damaged beyond use/protection.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Hard Armor is any armor that uses hard ceramic/plastic/metallic/wooden plates or coverage to protect the character. Hard armor is MUCH more durable than non-hard armor. Hard armor is denoted by hard on the armor sheet. Note that the components of hard armor are hard. They cannot be bent without damaging the armor. Hard armor is generally made specifically for the wearer, it will only fit others with nearly identical body proportions.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Soft armor (armor that isnt considered hard) is at least somewhat flexible. It will generally fit anyone of similar size/stature.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Armor with the descriptor fire has fire protection. This means the armor has the natural ability to deflect and protect against fire attacks. The armor will protect from all fire damage (assuming the fire hits the armor, so full suits are better for this).</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Armor can be layered, but only one hard suit can be worn at a time. A person can have different hard armors on different parts of the body. Non-hard armors can be layered indefinitely. Add all armor values of the armors together to give the full armor protection. If any armor has fire protection, fire will be stopped, but any armor on top of it is still susceptible to the fire.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>A character can wear (without penalty) as much armor in size levels as his Encumbrance score will allow. Add up all layers of armor to get the complete Size level of the armor, if this number is equal or less than Encumbrance, then no negatives are given to the player.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>When a character has more armor than his Encumbrance (ENC) allows, then the player has the following penalties against him:</p>
                <ul class="itemized-list">
                  <li>
                    <p>-2 DEX per pt over ENC</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>-1 action per 2 full points over ENC</p>
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>An armors Class is a general idea of what period of history/future the armor would appear. A later period can find the earlier armor.</p>
              </li>
            </ul>
						<div class="reference" name="Armor" category="Equipment">
							<a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Armor.xhtml">Armor</a>
						</div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Shields</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <ul class="itemized-list">
              <li>
                <p>When creating a shield, there are 2 factors. The material the shield is made of, and the type (size and shape) of shield. Choose both of these values when creating a shield to get the full set of statistics for the shield.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>On a successful block, a shield will subtract its appropriate armor value from the damage. Any damage that penetrates the shield will then be applied against the users armor.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Shields can be used to block splash attacks that are thrown at them. These include fireballs, lightning strikes, breath weapons, chemical splashes, etc. To block one of these attacks, the user must make a block roll at -3. If successful, then damage will be reduced based on the type of shield:</p>
                <ul class="itemized-list">
                  <li>
                    <p>Buckler: 10%</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Small: 25%</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Large: 50%</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Tower: 75%</p>
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Shields">
          <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Shields.xhtml">Equipment/Shields</a>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="section">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Miscellaneous</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body">
        <div class="reference" name="Equipment/Miscellaneous">
          <a class="hrid" href="Equipment/Miscellaneous.xhtml">Equipment/Miscellaneous</a>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
