<?xml version="1.0"?>
<table class="category" name="Body" category="Equipment|Melee">
  <thead name="titles" class="titles">
    <th width="4em" class="Title">Name</th>
    <th width="l" class="None">MetaTag</th>
    <th width="l" class="None">Class</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Type</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Cost</th>
    <th width="3em" class="Table">Damage</th>
    <th width="2em" class="Table">Hands</th>
    <th width="3em" class="Table">Minimum Strength</th>
    <th width="3em" class="Table">Maximum Strength Bonus</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Recovery</th>
    <th width="l" class="Description">Description</th>
    <th width="1.5in" class="Table">Notes</th>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Brass Knuckles</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Body</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>C</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>[+2] to Punch</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Also known as a "fist load" or Knuckleduster, this is a piece of metal designed to fit inside a closed fist. It usually is equipped with spikes that protrude between the fingers, or rings that surround the fingers&#x2014;allowing one to deal more damage with punches, and protecting the hand at the same time.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Cestus</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Body</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>C</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>[+1] to Punch</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A Cestus has a similar function as Similar as brass knuckles, though is made in a different manner.  A Cestus is a leather or fabric strap that is wrapped around the hand and tied at the wrist.  The strap is covered with metal studs or spikes that deal additional damage when punching.  Since the Cestus is strapped to the hand, it is impossible to drop it accidentally.  It also can be used at the same time as one is holding another object in the hand.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Cannot be disarmed.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Sap Glove</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Body</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>C</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>[+1] Punch; alters damage type to S</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Sap gloves are leather gloves which have lead or steel shot sewn into the back of the fingers and hand. This protects the wearer's hands in a fight, and the extra weight deals extra damage. They are commonly used by bouncers, security personnel, and police forces.  Since the gloves are attached to the hand it is impossible for them to be dropped accidentally.  It is possible to wear sap gloves while holding other items in the hand.  </p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Acts as soft leather armor on the hands.  Cannot be disarmed.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Studded or Spiked boots</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Body</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>P or C</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>+1 to Kick</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Fairly self-explanatory. These are heavy-duty boots with metal studs or spikes embedded in the toe area&#x2014;perfect for delivering a thorough ass kicking.  Special versions are available with hidden or retractable spikes.  This type of boot is much more expensive than the ordinary type.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Can be either C (studs) or P (spikes) for damage</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
