<?xml version="1.0"?>
<table class="category" name="Content/Martial Arts/Combination">
  <thead name="titles" class="titles">
    <th width="l" class="Title">Name</th>
    <th width="l" minitable="yes" class="Table">Rank</th>
    <th width="l" minitable="yes" class="Table">Actions</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Multiple</th>
    <th width="l" minitable="yes" class="Table">Attribute</th>
    <th width="l" class="Description">Description</th>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><p>Combine Offense</p></td>
      <td><p>2</p></td>
      <td><p>0</p></td>
      <td><p>Yes</p></td>
			<td><p/></td>
      <td><p>Choose one basic attack, and LVL Offensive Combat Actions.  Perform these as a single move that takes a number of actions equal to the attack or combat action which takes the most number of actions.  Roll using the lowest level.</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><p>Combine Defense</p></td>
      <td><p>3</p></td>
      <td><p>0</p></td>
      <td><p>Yes</p></td>
			<td><p/></td>
      <td><p>Choose one basic attack, and LVL Offensive or Defensive Combat Actions, but no more than one basic attack.  Perform these as a single move that takes a number of actions equal to the attack or combat action which takes the most number of actions.  Roll using the lowest level</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><p>Combat Magic</p></td>
      <td><p>1</p></td>
      <td><p>0</p></td>
      <td><p>Yes</p></td>
			<td><p/></td>
      <td><p>Choose one basic attack, and one spell whose rank is no greater than this Combat Magic level.  If you hit, this spell hits the target as well.  Spell is not cast on misses.  You must have sufficient MP to cast the spell.  Roll using your basic attack skill.</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><p>Combine Actions</p></td>
      <td><p>2</p></td>
      <td><p>0</p></td>
      <td><p>Yes</p></td>
			<td><p/></td>
      <td><p>Choose LVL + 1 Offensive or Defensive Combat Actions. Perform these as a single move that takes a number of actions equal to the Combat Action with the highest action cost.  Roll using the lowest level of the actions.</p></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
