<?xml version="1.0"?>
<table xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="category" name="Content/Equipment/Miscellaneous"><thead name="titles" class="titles"><th>Name</th><th>MetaTag</th><th>Cost</th><th>Description</th><th>Implementation</th></thead><thead name="display" class="display"><th>Title</th><th>None</th><th>Table</th><th>Description</th><th>None</th></thead><thead name="format" class="format"><th/><th/><th>l</th><th/><th/></thead><tbody><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>ALICE Rig</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $250.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Millitary vest used to hold weapons, ammo, grenades, rations, tools, etc. for quick access.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Ammo Pouch, combo</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $30.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A sturdy leather or nylon pouch that fits on your belt. Holds approx. 50 pistol rounds, 25 rifle rounds, or 15 shotgun shells</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Ammo Pouch, mag</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $30.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A leather or nylon pouch that fits on your belt. It holds up to four pistol magazines or two assault rifle mags</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Anti-dazzle lens</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Add this to a set of goggles or glasses. It prevents flashes of light, etc, from stunning the wearer.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Backpack</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>45</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A satchel with two straps designed to be worn on the back. A normal backpack can carry up to 40 lbs. Higher quality backpacks can hold up to 60 lbs. With a proper frame and waist strap, a backpack can carry up to 225 pounds, but has significant encumbrance (+1 Encumbrance for every 25 lbs above 75).</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Backpack - hard</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Hiker's backpack with a metal frame. Carries up to 100 pounds of gear. Very comfortable.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Bag of Holding</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>10000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A normal looking bag with an extradimensional space on the inside that holds extra weight and volume.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Belt</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>25</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A piece of flat leather or other sturdy material with a hasp designed to keep a pair of pants on.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Belt Buckle</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>25</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A large, flat plate designed to clasp a belt together. Typically comes with a design.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Belt of Leaves</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A belt made of brass, gold, and copper leaves; probably made by elves for trackers and hunters. Provides +1 to strike.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Binoculars, mini</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A pair of binoculars that folds up for easy carrying. Magnifies 4 times.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Binoculars, standard</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A normal pair of binoculars. Has a neck strap and a carrying case. Variable magnification from 5 to 10 times.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Binoculars, super</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $1,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A pair of high grade binoculars. Has a built in range finder and superior glass lenses. Mag varies from 5 to 20 times.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Blue Ribbon of Fagotry</p>
        </td><td>
          <p>Unique</p>
        </td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A beautiful blue ribbon.</p>
        </td><td>
          <p>Charisma += 2;</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Boat, Portable</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $750.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A backpack containing an inflatable boat, inflating device, and a set of collapsible paddles. Holds up to 750 lbs of people and gear. Not safe for ocean use, but not a toy.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Boat, inflatable</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A simple inflatable boat. Light duty. Will hold up to 500 lbs.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Boat, portable Zodiac</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $5,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Very high quality portable/inflatable boat. Kit weighs 160 lbs, carried in two packs. Has boat (seats four adults+250 lbs of gear), inflator, repair kit, portable paddes, and a small gas engine. Boat is very durable and will withstand small-caliber gunshots.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Book</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Any sort of book.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Boots</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>25</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Made for walking.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Bowl</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A dish for serving things which are prone to escape.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Breathing Apparatus</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Similar to a SCUBA tank. Has a mask and tank that protects the wearer from gases, diseases, fumes, etc, even in enviornments that have no oxygen. Worn by firefighters, etc. Tank is good for 3 hours, can be refilled.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Bug, micro</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Listening device the size of a button. Transmits what it hears to a common AM/FM radio. Range is 1000' max.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Bug, phone tap</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Listening device attached to a telephone. Range is 1 mile.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Bug, super</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $1,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Listening device. Button sized, has special encrypted transmssions. Range is 1 mile.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Bull's Eye Lantern</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>150</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A lantern with an enclosure that is either mirrored or highly-polished metal on the interior with a single exit hole. A Bull's Eye lantern produces a long beam (about 100 feet long) for normal burn time (see the Lantern), but only in a directed fashion. Some forms of the Bull's Eye Lantern have multiple shutters. Some have fresnel lenses (although this can increase the cost of the lantern by a factor of 10 or a 100). The lense increases the distance of the lantern to 250 feet.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Butcher's kit</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Used for dressing animals in the field. Contains meat bags, skinning knife, saw, and a compact game hoist.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Camera, Digital</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Digital video camera. Not a true pro-grade camera, but can store hundreds of photos and you don't have film hassles.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Camera, Video</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $1,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Video camera that records to tape or data discs. It is NOT broadcast quality, but is compact and easy to carry.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Camera, Zoom Lens</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Zoom lens for a camera for long-distance shots</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Camera, basic</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A simple film camera.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Camera, professional</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $1,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A pro grade film camera. Includes some different lenses, filters, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Camera, spy</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $300.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Super-small camera that can be easily concealed. Can be used like a normal camera, or can be set like a booby trap.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Cart, 2-wheeled</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>200</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A two-wheeled cart with attachments for a single pulling animal.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Cart, 4-wheel</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>350</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A four-wheel cart for use with a single draft-animal.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Cart, Ox</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>400</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A 2-wheeled cart for an Ox, has a much deeper bed and much taller sides.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Cat</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>5</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Kingdom</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Chemlight, bright</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $3.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A chemical light stick. Bend it to activate. This is a special stick that only lasts 20-30 minuites at most. It is VERY bright, like a good flashlight. Excellent for signaling, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Chemlight, mini</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $1.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small chemical light stick. It's about the size of a hair pin. Makes a great fishing lure</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Chemlight, stick</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $2.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A chemical light stick. Bend it to activiate. Works in any temperature, no batteries, etc. Gives off enough light to perform simple tasks in complete darkness. Lasts for 8-10 hours.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Climbing Gear</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $400.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Climibing shoes, gear belt / harness, climbing axe, pitons, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Climbing Gear - Ice</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $600.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>As above, but includes ice axe, crampons (spiked shoes), ice screws, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Cloak of Stealth</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td>
          <p>Piercing+=5; Crushing+=5; Slashing+=5; Encumber+=1;</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Clothes</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>40</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Keeps ya' covered.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Coat, Raincoat</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Waterproof coat. Good for travelling, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Coat, Trenchcoat</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $200.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Keeps you warm, dry, and is great for concealing things. Can conceal a shotgun or rifle.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Combat Belt</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Keeps your extra magazines, grenades, pistol, etc, close at hand and ready for use</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Computer, PDA</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $300.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small calculator-sized mini computer. Used for storing notes, directions, can also save small files, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Computer, advanced</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $4,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>High powered computer, “cutting edge” of the era</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Computer, basic</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $1,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A simple computer with monitor, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Computer, portable</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $2,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Portable version of a normal computer. Runs off of batteries or can be plugged in.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Cordelian Belt of the Warrior</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>132850</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>This was made by a Cordelian weaponsmith as a gift of a high-ranking military comander whose daughter the smith was courting. The accompanying armor was long ago destroyed, but the belt has survived. A dark brown iron studded leather belt with an iron buckle; shaped like a weight-lifters belt. Archaic Weapons at plus one level. -1 to all Charisma and Intelligence based skills. Healing magic has half effect.</p>
        </td><td>
          <p>Strength += 2; Build += 1; Dexterity += 1; MagicPoints -= 2;</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Cowboy Boots</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>225</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Midcalf heavy leather boots with a short heel and typically pointed shoe. Designed to ease horse-riding with stirrups.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Cowboy Hat</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>125</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A type of hat normally worn by workers who deal with cattle in the open desert or other arid climates.</p>
        </td><td>
          <p>Hick += 1;</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Cyber-medicine kit</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Supplies for performing first aid on cyborgs, etc. Contains many of the same things as a normal first aid kit, but also specialized drugs, and extra supplies.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Diving - Extra tank</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Extra tank gives up to 2 hour dive time.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Diving Kit</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $750.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>SCUBA kit with tank, regulator, weight belt, BCD vest. Everything needed for 1 person. 1 hour maximum dive time.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Dog</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>5</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Domain</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Donkey</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>500</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Kingdom</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Duffel Bag</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>25</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A heavy, denim bag in the shape of a tube with a single, heavy strap. Can easily accomodate 75 lbs. Larger versions can go up to 250 lbs. For every 25 lbs. a duffel bag adds 1 encumbrance.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Elephant</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>10000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A large, four-kneed animal weighing around 16000 lbs. Elephants are the biggest of the domesticated draft animals. Carts and wagons must be specially designed to be used with them.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Elephant of War</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>120000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>An Elephant of War can weigh up to 26000 lbs and be 16 or 17 feet tall. This is the only type of elephant that can be controlled in combat.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Feather Comforter</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>600</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A comforter, filled with feathers.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Feather Mattress</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>500</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A nice feather mattress; bulky but only about 25 lbs.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Fishing Kit, portable</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small box containing a multi-piece rod &amp; reel, line, hooks, lures, and a small folding net.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Flannel Shirt</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>30</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A heavy shirt made of flannel with (pearl) snap buttons, with a collar.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Flares, aerial</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $20.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>These flares look like shotgun shells. They are fired from a launcher and ignite high in the air, whereafter they drift slowly back down. Available in red, green, blue, yellow, white. Priced per set of 5.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Flares, launcher</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Looks like pistol. Fires aerial signal flares</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Flares, signal</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $5.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A stick-type flare that burns with a bright red flame. (Road flare). For marking targets, warnings, etc. Good for starting fires too.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Flashlight, Heavy duty</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $25.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Metal police flashlight. Can be used as a club. Very tough, waterproof, high brightness</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Flashlight, Spotlight</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Portable spotlight for hunting, search-and-rescue, etc. Runs for 4 hours, VERY powerful.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Flashlight, pen light</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $5.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Pen-sized pocket flashlight</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Flashlight, small</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $5.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A handy flashlight that fits in your pocket.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Flashlight, standard</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $10.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A normal flashlight. It takes two D-size batteries.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Flint and Tender</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>15</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Flint, Striker, a small, sealed, wooden box, and tender (typically moss). Can be used to start a fire, although this can take 15 or 20 minutes or more.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Folding Chair</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>75</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Comes in two forms depending upon the time period. Pre-modern folding charis are a triangle of leather suspended between three stout posts. A modern (or ultramodern) chair forms a full chair with armrests and a back.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Forensics kit</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $25.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Magnifying glass, fingerprinting supplies, disposable camera, evidence bags, composite sketch kit, notebook, handbook</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>GPS Rec. superior</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $1,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Global Positioning System tool. About the size of a calculator. Has advanced 2-D and 3-D mapping information, weather data, can store and re-display paths travelled, etc. Can display directions in urban areas.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>GPS Reciever</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $200.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Global Positioning System tool. About the size of a calculator, it tells you exactly where you are in the world. Has limited mapping functions too.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Gas Mask</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>rubber mask with filter prevents poisous gases, smoke, etc, from harming the wearer. Filter is good for 6 hours.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Gas Mask filter</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $25.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>extra filter for gas mask. Lasts for 6 hours.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Gem</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Any sort of gem.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Generator, large</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $2,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A big generator that might be found on a construction site. Can run power tools, big floodlights, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Generator, small</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A backpack sized portable generator. Good for operating small electronic devices like TV, radio, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Glass Bottle</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Glass bottles vary in cost dependent upon size, cost, quality, and timeperiod. For the modern period, a glass bottle is typically about 5 dollars per liter (non-bulk). In “medieval” periods they would be about 50 dollars per liter. In for "ancient" time periods or very-out-of-the-way, they are about 500 dollars (or more) per liter.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Gloves, Butcher's</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Heavy-duty gloves made from kevlar or metal that prevents your hand from being cut when handling sharp objects. Has 1/4/0 Armor for the hands.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Gloves, Grip</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Specially treated gloves to improve your grip on objects. Gives +1 STR when in a strength contest, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Gloves, Mittens</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $5.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Gloves for cold weather. -3 Dex while wearing them</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Gloves, Work</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $5.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Leather gloves to protect the hands from minor cuts and abrasions while working</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Goggles - combat</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Full wraparound goggles that protect the eyes from dust, shrapnel, chemicals, and laser sighting devices</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Goggles - night vision</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $1,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Provides monochrome night vision by amplfiying ambient light</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Goggles - thermal</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $2,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Allows wearer to "see" heat. It has a limited ability to see heat through things. The thicker the cover, the less detail.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Handcuffs</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $25.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Police quality handcuffs. Cannot be broken unless STR &gt;19, Lock can be picked at -4 to roll.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Handcuffs, super</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Extra-high security handcuffs. Requires STR &gt; 26 to break them. Lock is -10 to pick.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Handkerchief</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>3</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small square piece of cloth.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Hat</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>5</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>For head.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Hat, Adventurer's</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Keep the sun and the bugs off your head.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Hemp Rope</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>1</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>For 1 foot. Weighs .2 lbs.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Holster, Hip</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A simple holster that holds your gun at your hip. Can be modern appearance, or "old west" type.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Holster, SWAT</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Holds a pistol or SMG on your leg. Can't be concealed, but offers +2 to quick draw the weapon.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Holster, Shoulder</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $200.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Quality leather rig holds your pistol by your shoulder or armpit. Conceals under a jacket easily. Fit to the wearer</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Holster, concealed</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Used to conceal a gun inside your pants or by your bellybutton.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Horse, Draft</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>1500</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A horse that has been only been trained to draft; that is be hitched to pull a plow, wagon, cart, ferry, etc. These horses can weigh up to 1500 lbs. (making them about the size of the largest Warhorse). They can stand up to 16 hands at the withers.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Horse, Farm</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>500</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A normal farm horse (Quarter).</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Horse, Riding</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>750</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A horse that has been trained to be ridden. Not combat ready.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Horse, Shire</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>5000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A shire horse is the largest of the Draft horses. They can be 18 or 20 hands high and over a ton, and some specimens (although very rare) have come in at 24 hands and 3000+ lbs. These horses, even given their size, are unusually strong, and have unusual endurance. They are known for their kindness, but also for their great stupidity. They are unusable as Warhorses, although attempts (unsuccessful) have been made.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Horse, Thoroughbred</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>12000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Also called a Postal Horse. These are the fastest horses money can buy; they have been bred for unusually long endurance, which means Thoroughbreds are not only the fastest but also the longest distance horses. It is not unusual for a Thoroughbred to be able to maintain speeds of 40+ mph for 6 or more hours.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Jean's Jacket</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>55</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A heavy, denim jacket. Normally with heavy brass flat-tack buttons and pockets.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Jeans</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>25</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A pair of pants made from heavy denim, normally triple-stitched for extra strength. Typically comes with front and back pockets and loops for a belt.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Jerry Can</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $25.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A metal or plastic container for storing &amp; transporting gas, water, oil, etc. Very rugged. Has a 5 gallon capacity, and can be used with most chemicals.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Lantern</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>80</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Gas or oil. A lantern is a bulkier but more efficient way to light an area as it typically comes with a glass enclosure and a flue to increase the temperature of burning. A lantern burns one ounce of oil per hour to light a 20 foot radius. Burning four times as much oil per hour double the equvalent lit area.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Lock Picks, gun</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A nifty little tool that will open nearly all simple key locks in a second or two. Can be used by unskilled persons. Tool gives Lockpick: 2 regardless of level of user. Only works on simple locks (no good for cars, safes, combinations, etc.)</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Lock Picks, master</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A full lockpick set, about the size of a hardcover book. Contains many different types of picks and specialty tools. Use for car locks, padlocks, doors, etc. +3 to lockpick skill.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Lock Picks, mini</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small leather pouch containing a tension wrench and 3-4 commonly shaped picks. Good for simple locks.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Lock Picks, set</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A pouch about the size of a glasses case. It contains a tension wrench, and an assortment of picks and other lock tools. This would be sufficient for most locks.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Medical Kit</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $250.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small tote bag with a good selection of first aid supplies. Gauze banadges, antiseptic, scissors, simple drugs, elastic bandage, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Medical Kit - First Aid</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $10.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small waterproof box with basic first aid supplies (band aids, gauze bandages, ointment, aspirin, etc.)</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Medical Kit - Large</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $2,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A large duffel bag crammed with most of an emergency room. Enough to complete simple many surgical procedures. A full assortment of bandages, many drugs (painkillers, disease treatments, anesthetic, antibiotics, etc), surgical tools, splints, portable EKG machine, emergency fluids &amp; blood supply, sutures, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Mess Kit</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $25.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Frying pan x2, pan lid, cup, bowl, knife, fork, spoon, and salt/pepper shaker. It all nests together in a small pouch.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Mobile Phone</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Portable telephone. Works off of cellular system. Works in all major cities and most suburbs.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Mobile Phone, sat</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $1,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Portable telephone. Works off of satellites. Works anywhere on earth.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Money</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>5</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>5x the cost of gold.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Oil Lamp</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>60</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Come in various sizes (ounces of fluid). An oil lamp burns about one ounce of oil per hour to light a 10-foot-radius zone. Burning the oil four times as fast doubles the equivalent site radius. Oil lamps can be made of many materials such as stone, fired clay, glass, brass, bronze, or steel.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Oliphant</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>2200000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>An Oliphant is a semimagical breed of Titanic War Elephant. They are typically about 40' feet tall and weigh around 55 tons. They are adorned with tusks, uptusks (like a warthog), sabre-fangs, and incisorial glancing-tusks (upward bending tusks like a walrus).</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Pine Tar Torch</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>3</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Lasts approximately 2 hours in a well-ventilated room. Gives off a prodigious amount of smoke, but smells pretty good.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Pitch Torch</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>12</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Pitch torches are "better" than pine-tar torches because they produce a less perfidious odor. They also lasts about 6 hours.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Pouch</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>10</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small bag, usually with a drawstring. Can hold only a couple of pounds of items.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Precious Metal</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Any precious metal.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Precious Stone</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Any precious stone (not a gem!)</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Radio, Comm headset</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A radio headset that has hands-free operation. Works up to 2 miles away in clear areas. Each</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Radio, Walkie-Talkie</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A hand-held radio that lets you talk to other people with similar radios. Has a range up to 2 miles in clear areas. Each.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Rations</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $5.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Millitary ration (MRE) or equivalent. A plastic bag containing a full meal. About as big as a "bag lunch"</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Rations - mini</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $3.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small food bar. Highly nutritious (1 day's food in one bar!), but tastes awful. Same size as a candy bar.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Repair Kit</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $200.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>For repairing robotics, power armor, and mecha. Contains specialized tools (but not basics, which are also needed) Oil, wire, common replacement parts, special repair materials, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Ring</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Any sort of ring.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Ring of Daylight Globe</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A ring with the Daylight Globe spell cast on it. This normally has either fixed charges or charges-per-day.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Ring of the Ram</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>20000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Crafted by Darin Tealpeck who wore it whenever he left his castle. A large man's ring mad eof a gold-bearing alloy. Roughly made, with a head of a ram on it. Tarnished.</p>
        </td><td>
          <p>Crushing += 2; Slashing += 2; Piercing += 2;</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Rope, climbing</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $150.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Woven rope handles better and is safer for climbing than normal rope. Can hold up to 1000 lbs. 100 feet</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Rope, utility</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Basic twisted rope. Good for all sorts of uses! Can hold up to 500 lbs before it breaks. Price is for 100 feet</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Satan's Stopwatch</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>100000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Using a move equivalent action, turn on Satan's Stopwatch. For this turn and the next, gain an extra standard action. The Stopwatch is truly indestructible; when using the watch, the user's aura is modified to reflect Satan's power.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Semiprecious Stone</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Any sort.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Sharkskin Gloves</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>25000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Crafted approximately one hundred years ago by a seafaring people of unknown origin. A pair of gray leather gloves that cover all five fingers and end at the wrist. A set of woven silk laces on the back of the hand allow the gloves to be secured tightly to the hand. The leather is made from the preserved hide of a giant shark</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Shovel</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $15.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>For digging holes. A regular shovel with a wooden handle</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Shovel, folding</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $10.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Portable army shovel. It folds up to take less space.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Silk Rope</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>5</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>For one foot. Weights 2 ounces.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Skillet</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>50</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A heavy, flat, iron pan. Skillets come in all sizes. Superior versions have very thick cast-iron bottoms.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Sleeping Bag</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>75</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A flat, heavy bag designed to be slept in. Can be made of light leather, denim, or cotton with a stuffing (the best use arctic feathers). A sleeping bag can accommodate one person comfortably or two as a tight fit. Superior versions are no heavier or bulkier but can enable surviving cooler tempatures. A normal sleeping backpack is good down to freezing. Additional superiority can reduce the minimum tempurature in steps of 40 degrees.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Snowshoes</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>For walking on snow. Also useful for loose desert sand</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Socks</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>4</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Wool or cotten tube designed to be worn on the foot.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Spidersilk Rope</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>50</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>This is for 1 feet of rope. Weighs 1–2 ounce.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Statue</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>0</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Any sort of statue.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Suit- Dry suit</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $1,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Used for diving in very cold water.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Suit- Enviornmental</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Special rubber and plastic suit covers the entire body. Has a built-in gas mask. Prevents harm due to posion gas, smoke, dangerous chemicals, spills, fumes, toxins, diseases, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Suit- Fire</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $250.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>NOMEX clothing and helmet. Has no armor value, but protects wearer from fire.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Suit- Ghillie</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Sniper's camo suit. Must be purchased for a certain type of terrain (desert, woodland, urban, etc...) Gives +4 to camo skill.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Suit- Space</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $2,500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Space suit, similar to that worn by astrounauts. Has an emergency air supply built in.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Suit- Wetsuit</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $200.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Used for diving. Keeps wearer protected from abrasions, jellyfish, etc. Keeps diver warm.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Survival Kit, basic</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $40.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A fanny pack containing simple first aid supplies, two days of emergency rations, poncho, fishing supplies, knife, snare, matches, 100 feet of strong cord, signal mirror, magnifying lens, water purifying tablets, and basic medications.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Survival Kit, full</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $500.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A backpack with enough gear to survive for a long time: first aid supplies, 15 days of mini-rations, knife, fishing supplies, snare, guidebook to animals &amp; plants, 4 days of water, water filter, compass, flashlight, signal equipment, flare launcher, matches, assorted drugs, compact sleeping blanket, battery powered radio, and a .22 caliber gun with 200 rounds.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>T-shirt</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>10</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A type of shirt made from cotton or a cotton-polyblend with short or long sleeves; no collar and simplified construction.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tao Tieh Pendant</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>10000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small stone pendant carved with a Yin–Yang. The size of a quarter of black-granite. Part is inlaid with mother-of-pearl. The back is engraved with eight Tao hexagrams in an octagonal pattern inlaid in gold. There is a crude fiber cord attached to the pendant.</p>
        </td><td>
          <p>ManaPoints+=50; Piercing+=1; Crushing+=1; Slashing+=1;</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tent, expedition</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $300.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>High quality tent will stand up to the worst weather conditions. Fits 3 adults max.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tent, large</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A big “cabin”style tent. Has lots of room inside, up to 8 adults.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tent, small</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $30.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A small tent. Will fit two adults max.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tent, survival</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A tiny tent large enough for one person. Fits into a pants pocket!</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tool kit- advanced</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $3,000.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Large tool kit for working on machinery, vehicles, or mecha. Fits in a large rolling chest or small trailer. Has many special tools such as a large jack, extra-large wrench set for big jobs, portable engine hoist, small air compressor, metal and wood cutting saws, powered wrench, gas torch, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tool kit- basic</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $30.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A portable pouch with the basics: Hammer, screwdrivers, adjustable wrench, pliers, measuring tape, and a small saw</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tool kit- standard</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $200.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A big tool box filled with a large assortment of tools. Weighs about 70 lbs. Good for most basic jobs.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tool, Halligan</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $250.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Firefighter's tool. A single piece of metal that has a hammer, axe, hydrant wrench, and a special prying edge. It can be used to force open doors, etc.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tool, MultiTool</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $75.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A pocket tool similar to a “swiss army knife”. It has common tools inside, like pliers, screwdriver, knife blade, etc. Very handy, but not tough enough for serious jobs or manuverable enough for delicate work.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Tool, Rescue</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>2-in-1 tool. Used to break car windshields and cut seatbelts/clothing. Cannot be used as a weapon.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Utensil</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>2</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Any eating utensil such as a spoon, fork, knife or chopstick.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Wagon</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>1200</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A large four-wheeled cart, possibly enclosed. Can accomodate one or two draft animals.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Wagon, Ox</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>5000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A very large wagon that can accomodate a team of Oxen, like a regular wagon, but much larger.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Wagon, Postal Carrier</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>4000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A wagon with a light-weight steel undercarriage with wicker-work and canvas top. The top is oiled and made from doubled-egypt cloth and is therefore weather proof. A Postal Carrier weighs approximately 1–4 of an equivalently sized wagon, but uses the same number of draft animals. It can maintain twice the speed of a normal wagon.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Wagon, Team</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>3500</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A wagon which can accomodate a team of draft animals. Teams come in even numbers; for example, this type of wagon can accomodate teams of 2,4,6, or 8 draft animals.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Warhorse</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>3000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A "normal" warhorse is much larger than a regular horse, being around 1300 lbs. Only warhorses can be used in combat.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Warhorse, Furious</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>15000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>These are the largest of the Warhorses, weighing in at 1500 or more pounds. They are known for extreme (and violent) attachment to a single rider and will literally attempt to kill any others attempting to ride them. Furies are the strongest, fastest, and most durable of all the Warhorses.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Warhorse, Heavy</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>5000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A breed of Warhorse used by mounted and heavily armored soldiers. These Warhorses are not much bigger than a normal Warhorse, but are much stronger. They are typically slower but have greater endurance. Only warhorses can be used in combat.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Warhorse, King's Own</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>50000</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A subbreed of the Furious, the King's Own is a slightly lighter, but much faster horse than the Furious. They are trained to be able to handle two riders. Only warhorses can be used in combat.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Warhorse, Light</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p>2500</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A smaller horse bred for speed and ferocity. Only warhorses can be used in combat.</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Watch, Calculator</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $50.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A wristwatch with a built-in calculator.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Watch, standard</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $20.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>Tells the time. That's about it.</p>
        </td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
          <p>Watch, survival</p>
        </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td table="yes">
          <p> $100.00</p>
        </td><td description="yes">
          <p>A heavy-duty watch that's nearly indestructible. Waterproof, has built in compass, thermometer, and other features.</p>
        </td></tr></tbody></table>
