<?xml version="1.0"?>
    <div class="chapter" timeperiod="*" category="Magic">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Magic</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body">
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Introduction</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <p>Magic exists in many forms. It is a supernatural energy that permeates everything in the world. Characters with the right skills can bend this energy to their will&#x2014;and perform amazing feats in the process. Magic is capable of healing the sick, raising the dead, creating a great fireball, protecting the caster from harm&#x2014;and nearly anything else you can imagine.</p>
            <p>Magic, whatever type it might be, is all about manipulating MANA. Mana, as mentioned above, is a supernatural energy that is present in everything. It is in the air, the ground, in your food, even in your body. Mana is what is responsible for &#x201C;enforcing&#x201D; physical laws such as gravity, etc. When a person uses magic, they are manipulating mana to do what they want. Normally, this is the mana that is in their own body. It is possible to work with mana outside one&#x2019;s body as well. Nobody really knows exactly how mana works, but special gestures and body movements handed down throughout time are believed to initiate complex quantum-mechanical events that result in seemingly impossible things taking place&#x2014;magic.</p>
            <p>Mana is found in all things. However, more mana is found in some things than others. Gases (air, for example) have very little mana. Denser substances such as water and stone have more mana. Complex things such as man-made objects (pottery, woodcarvings, machinery, etc.) contain quite a lot of mana. Living things, from mice to humans to whales, contain even more mana. Mana is released back into the environment when living things die, or when mana-rich objects decay, are burned, or broken. Other objects tend to &#x201C;soak up&#x201D;mana that is released near them. Thus, older items tend to contain more mana than do &#x201C;new&#x201D; ones. Whenever an item is broken it is possible to extract some of its mana as it dissipates back into the environment. This is also possible when a living creature dies. In game terms, we call mana &#x201C;MP&#x201D;(Mana Points / Magic Points).</p>
            <p>Examples of locations/things that are very rich in mana:</p>
            <ul class="itemized-list">
              <li>
                <p>Graveyards, grave markers</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Large Churches, Cathedrals, holy symbols, idols, and relics</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Museums, famous artwork or historical objects</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Antiques</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Ancient ruins, crypts, etc.</p>
              </li>
            </ul>
            <p>Examples of locations/things that have a lot of mana:</p>
            <ul class="itemized-list">
              <li>
                <p>Old houses, family heirlooms</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Smaller churches and shrines.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Local landmarks such as wishing wells, old trees, popular meeting places</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Very old people, especially those that are revered by others.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Important people with a lot of public exposure or reknown (royalty, politicians, popular musicians, etc)</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Slaughterhouses</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Fossils, natural gemstones</p>
              </li>
            </ul>
            <p>Examples of locations/things that have very little mana:</p>
            <ul class="itemized-list">
              <li>
                <p>Barren landscapes such as desert or arctic regions</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Sky</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Some underground caves or dungeons</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Ghost towns/ looted or abandoned buildings</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Newly cleared land</p>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Types of Magic</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Invocation Magic (spellcasting)</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Invocation spellcasting is the most common and basic form of magic. This is the art of the wizard and sorceress, where characters use innate mana to cast spells. Invocation spells are based on methodical, practiced, gestures and chanting of magical incantations.</p>
                <p>Incantation magic is learned. The invocation magician will have a list of spells that she has studied and memorized. As long as she has mana (MP) available, she may cast any spell that she knows. Because invocation magicians use innate mana and well defined, repeatable, forms it is the easiest type of magic to learn.</p>
                <p>Spells are learned from other magicians, studious research, or a combination of the two. Research requires access to various books on the subject of magic, including book(s) that are specifically about the spell to be learned. True books on magical subjects are few and far between, and books about high level spells are extremely valuable. Invocation magicians have invented a special language to record and describe magic spells and the procedures required to cast them. All true magical books will be written, at least in part, in this special language. Wizards and Sorceresses might hail from different countries, races, and moral standpoints&#x2014;but they all share common ground in the ability to read magical script. Magical script is specially designed to describe and transcribe magical spells, therefore it is rarely used for other purposes. It is difficult to carry on a conversation, written or spoken, in the language of magic.</p>
                <p>More often than not a wizard will belong to a particular clan or school, where many wizards pool their knowledge and references for members to share. In such situations there will usually be more experienced spellcasters that may teach their skills to junior members. Wizards may be children of existing wizards or they might be apprentices or students at an established wizard&#x2019;s school or place of business. Wizard secret societies are common as well. Some are devoted to particular schools of magic. Others are devoted to a certain cause and happen to share arcane secrets to persue common goals. Wizard secret societies and wizard schools are places where other wizards can learn new spells and find magical items. However, most magic secret societies have a strict hierarchy and code of conduct. Special oaths, tithes, and obedience to the order are often required, and favors always entail repayment.</p>
                <p>Spells are purchased (learned) similar to skills. However, there are no levels for spells. A character either knows a given spell, or they don&#x2019;t. If you like you can think of this as a &#x201C;level 1 skill&#x201D;.</p>
                <p>There exist different schools (aka categories) of magic. Some Wizards specialize in certain schools, but that is purely optional. Any character may learn spells from any category&#x2014;but with the following restrictions. A character may only learn a given spell if she knows at least one spell of lower rank from the same school. As well, the rank of the spell must be no higher than your Spellcasting skill level. For example, you cannot learn a rank 4 &#x201C;Air&#x201D;magic spell unless you already know a rank 3 &#x201C;Air&#x201D;spell, AND you must have Level 4 or higher Spellcasting.</p>
                <p>You can learn any spell, regardless of type, if you have a spellcasting skill at least three levels higher than the rank of the spell. For example, if you have a spellcasting skill level of 6, then you could learn any spell of rank 3 or lower, regardless of school or prerequisite lower-rank spell.</p>
                <p>A character with level 1 or higher spellcasting can always learn Rank 1 magical spells from any school without restriction.</p>
                <p>Note that a Wizard or Sorceress character must have at least one level in Magical Studies in order to read spell books and to learn the intonations required for magical incantations. Beyond that Magical Studies is a purely optional skill.</p>
                <p>Characters that cast Invocation magic must have at least two free points of Encumberance available. If not, they are not able to cast magic.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Ritual Magic</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Ritual magic is performed in elaborate &#x201C;performances&#x201D; involving a much human involvement. Magic rituals involve material components (ingredients) and a great deal of chanting, mumbling, gesturing, and the like. The traditional image of a witch, bent over a bubbling cauldron containing newt eyes and salamander toenails is a good example of ritual magic. Whereas traditional spellcasting is an almost scientific pursuit, ritual magic is more of an art. Rituals are conducted with a trained eye and experience. Because ritual ingredients vary in quality and potency, precision has little use. Ritual magicians are shamans, witches and warlocks.</p>
                <p>Ritual magic is not religious. In fact, it is no more religious than making a bowl of oatmeal or mixing some cement. However, in many cultures ritual magic is heavily associated with religion, especially in primitive, animistic, or tribal societies. In these cultures ritual magic is the domain of the &#x201C;witch doctor&#x201D; or &#x201C;medicine man&#x201D;&#x2014;people who hold important positions in the tribe, often including that of a kind of priest or spiritual leader. Therefore, there is a strong association between ritual magic and primitive, pagan, religions. Many ritual magicians are religious figures, members of mysterious cults, etc. Some ritual magicians have been known to practice animal or even human sacrifice (an excellent, though horrific, source of MP for rituals). In these societies ritual magic is often believed to be religious in nature despite the fact that it is decidedly not.</p>
                <p>Ritual magic users do not use innate MP to perform magic. Rather, they use material components (ingredients) to create magical effects. Performing rituals requires a large amount of space and various supplies and components. Ritual preparation and casting is a time consuming and often messy proposition. Therefore, most ritualists have a set area where they can store their materials and perform rituals: usually a quiet location away from prying eyes. This might be a purpose-built room in the home or a secret &#x201C;lair&#x201D; in a basement or abandoned building. It might even be a cave or hidden woodland grotto. Such an area is a very personal space for the ritualist, and while it might be neatly organized or highly messy, it will be arrayed exactly how its owner prefers.</p>
                <p>Most ritual supplies are re-useable, and a ritualist&#x201D;s &#x201C;kitchen&#x201D; will be well stocked with such items. These include such things as wands, knives, scales, measuring devices, a fireplace, cauldrons, bottles, pots, strainers, mirrors, precious gems, candles, assorted tools, and so on. Approximately $1000 * Rank worth of supplies is required in a ritualist&#x201D;s &#x201C;kitchen&#x201D;. (In other words, in order to perform the Ritual Stoneform, which is a rank 6 spell, $6000 worth of supplies are required to be on hand) These supplies are reuseable and are used for many different rituals.</p>
                <p>Specific spells require different ingredients. Ingredients could be nearly anything, including herbs and roots, body parts (animal and human), minerals, chemicals, plants, and so forth. Some of these are common and will be used for many different spells. Others are quite specific and rare, and have very specific applications. A ritualist will usually have a personal stockpile of ingredients and components stored away. This stockpile will usually include all but the most expensive of components. Of course, some components can be difficult to find and some must be fresh, so any ritualist will definately have the means to locate components that she needs. Some components might be gathered personally, through the use of skills such as herbalism, alchemy, hunting, or scrounging. Other components are purchased by the ritualist. Some components may be purchased at common merchants while others must be purchased from special (and sometimes illicit) vendors. Most ritualists will have known connections through which different components and supplies might be shared, purchased, or loaned.</p>
                <p>The cost of ingredients for a particular spell is approximately 1/10 of the &#x201C;scroll or potion&#x201D; cost from the spell chart. This assumes fair prices in an open market. However, this cost might vary greatly depending on various circumstances. For example, in a certain town components for Fire spells might be common and therefore very inexpensive, while components for Earth spells might be rare and therefore much more expensive.</p>
                <p>In addition to its specific &#x201C;recipe&#x201D;, any ritual spell will also require the infusion of mana. As mentioned above, in ritual magic the MP does not come from the caster. The caster must gather objects containing sufficient MP to conduct the spell. As mentioned above, mana is present in nearly everything, but generally not in sufficient quantity to do any good. Therefore, the ritualist must seek out items that are rich in MP to use when conducting a ritual. This process results in the destruction of the items used! This might even entail the sacrifice of living things&#x2014;if such an amount of MP is required. Generally, items yielding MP for ritual use will cost about $1 per MP required, though this will vary. Much like individual spell components, a ritualist will tend to hoard items that may be sacrificed for MP. Common items are living plants and small animals, antiques, old artwork, fossils, old holy items, old clothing (especially from special occasions) and well-used household goods. MP-source items are not spell-dependant. MP items can be used for ANY spell.</p>
                <ul class="itemized-list">
                  <li>
                    <p>NO MP from the character are required for ritual magic</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Each spells components cost 1/10th of thescroll/potioncost from the spell table, PLUS1 for each MP required. Components are consumed and can only be used once. (note that costs are approximate and should be determined by the GM)</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>The time required to prepare for a given ritual is equal to Rank-1 hours. Once preparations are made, the ritual must be conducted within 12 hours or the preparations are wasted and must be begun again. Preparation uses up one half of the required ritual ingredients.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>The time required to perform a given ritual is [Time] minutes. Conducting the ritual itself must be done within 12 hours of preparations being made, and uses up the remaining half of the ritual ingredients.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Ritual spells cost 1 less Rank to learn than normal</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Ritual magicians learn free rituals as they gain levels in Ritual Magic, according to the chart below; note that they are free to purchase other spells as they desire.</p>
                  </li>
                </ul>
                <div class="figure">
                  <table class="display-table">
                    <caption>
                      <p>Rank of Ritual Spells per Ritual Magic Level</p>
                    </caption>
                    <thead>
                      <th>
                        <p>Level of Ritual Magic</p>
                      </th>
                      <th>
                        <p>1</p>
                      </th>
                      <th>
                        <p>2</p>
                      </th>
                      <th>
                        <p>3</p>
                      </th>
                      <th>
                        <p>4</p>
                      </th>
                      <th>
                        <p>5</p>
                      </th>
                      <th>
                        <p>6</p>
                      </th>
                      <th>
                        <p>7</p>
                      </th>
                      <th>
                        <p>8</p>
                      </th>
                      <th>
                        <p>9</p>
                      </th>
                      <th>
                        <p>10</p>
                      </th>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>1</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>5</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>7</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>4</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>4</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>8</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>5</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>5</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>9</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>6</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>4</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>6</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>10</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>7</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>5</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>4</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>7</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>11</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>8</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>6</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>5</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>4</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>8</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>12</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>8</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>7</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>6</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>5</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>4</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>9</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>12</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>8</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>7</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>7</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>6</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>5</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>4</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>10</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>12</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>8</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>7</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>7</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>6</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>5</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>4</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>1</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                    </tbody>
                  </table>
                </div>
                <p>Ritual magicians may also perform a ritual in a special manner, infusing the spell into an object, such as a weapon or magical totem. Infusing a spell takes the same amount of time as performing the ritual in normal fashion. Once the spell is infused in an item, it may be released very quickly. Releasing a charge (the energy and magical effects of a stored ritual) requires 1 action, regardless of the original casting time of the spell. Infused ritual items are only good for twenty-four hours, at which point the charge is lost and the item returns to normal. The ritualist may create charges of extended duration when he first performs the infusion, but each 24 hours of time requires another batch of the requisite spell ingredients (not Mana). Therefore, it can become very expensive to make long duration infused items. An infused item may be used by anyone, not just the ritualist.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Religious &amp; Faith Magic</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Religious magic is magical effects that are brought into reality by the combined will of the caster and the caster&#x2019;s god(s). Whereas primitive religions and cults tend towards the use of ritual magic, Religious or Faith magic is practiced by priests of clearly defined and well organized religions. Most religions that practice Faith magic have a clearly organized hierarchy within the church. Religious dogma and/or scripture is well defined and is extensively documented. Faith-magic using religions are not necessarily &#x201C;good&#x201D;, but they are usually known to the general public and often actively recruit new members.</p>
                <p>Religious magic is taught by a particular Church. Each faith has one or more magic schools associated with it. These nearly always include Spiritual and Life magic, and may include others. Most faiths have 3 or 4 schools of spells. A faith caster has access to all spells in the school(s) associated with his Faith, except those whose rank is higher than his level of faith, and those which are specifically prohibited by his Church. For example, a &#x201C;good&#x201D; tending religion would typically deny harmful Life-magic spells to their adherents, for example curse.</p>
                <ul class="itemized-list">
                  <li>
                    <p>MP are consumed as normal spellcasting</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>A holy symbol is required for religious magic casting</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>A successful Faith check must be made for casting faith magic.</p>
                  </li>
                </ul>
                <p>Priests, monks, and warriors of faith practice religious magic. All religious spells are channeled through a holy symbol (see below).</p>
                <p>Once a day the caster must engage in prayer. The exact means of praying is left up to the players &amp; GM, but during this time the priest will choose which spells he as access to for the remainder of the day. The caster may choose any combination of spells he has access to, provided that he has enough MP (at the time of prayer) for that particular combination. The caster must allocate MP and spells during this prayer session. Until the next prayer session those are the spells the caster may use. A holy symbol of at least +0 quality is required for this prayer, otherwise the caster cannot allocate spells for that day.</p>
                <p>A faith magic user always uses the Faith skill for any and all magic-related skill rolls, including those that would normally require Spellcasting or Magical Control, etc.</p>
                <p>A Holy Symbol is always required to cast Faith magic. If a holy symbol is not available, then Faith magic simply cannot be cast. Thankfully, a simple gesture or trinket often suffices. There are different types of holy symbols. &#x201C;Better&#x201D; and more significant holy symbols offer a better bonus to Faith magic casting:</p>
                <div class="figure">
                  <table class="display-table">
                    <caption>
                      <p>Bonuses provided by a Holy Symbol</p>
                    </caption>
                    <thead>
                      <th>
                        <p>Bonus</p>
                      </th>
                      <th width="3.5in">
                        <p>Description</p>
                      </th>
                      <th width="1in">
                        <p>Cost</p>
                      </th>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>-1</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>A gesture made by the Faithful, or a crude marking (such as a cross hastily drawn on a parchment)</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>$0</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>0</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>An inexpensive &#x201C;trinket&#x201D; type holy symbol, or a common copy of a holy book / scripture. Generally mass-produced. Might be given away at a particular church, or might be available for purchase. Also a holy symbol made by a marginally skilled craftsman or apprentice. Example: prayer beads, a simple carved wooden cross, a mass-printed holy book, etc.</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Cost: $5 or more.</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>1</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>An unusually high quality trinket made by a good craftsman (such as a fine gold crucifix necklace). Or, a good quality weapon bearing religious inscription and symbols. Or, an item from a particular church which is not available to the general public (such as the robes of an ordained priest), or a fine quality holy book.</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Cost: At least $500 plus the cost of the &#x201C;base item&#x201D;</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>A trinket or jewelry made by a master craftsman and of fine pedigree and history. Or, a weapon or other object of superior quality with appropriate engravings and blessings.</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Cost: at least $5000 plus the base cost of the item.</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>An artifact or relic of religious significance, generally has a famous history within the church, or a Legendary quality weapon blessed by a member of the church with Faith: 7 or higher.</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Cost: $1,000,000 or more.</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>4</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>An artifact or relic of tremendous religious significance. Items like this are literally worshipped in the particular religion. There will only be a handful of items like this in existence for any one religion at any given time (if any at all). Examples: Spear of Destiny, Holy Grail, piece of the true cross, skull of a major saint.</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Cost: priceless.</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                    </tbody>
                  </table>
                </div>
                <p>Anytime a Faith magic caster has to make a magic-related roll (&#x201C;Magical Control&#x201D; roll, or a strike roll associated with a magical spell, etc), use the caster&#x2019;s Faith skill. Whatever holy symbol that the caster has is then applied as a bonus to that roll.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Martial Magic / Super Power Combat</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Martial magic is the ability to perform supernatural &#x201C;attacks&#x201D; in conjunction with normal combat, such as fist fighting, martial arts, or combat with weapons.</p>
                <p>Martial Magic always works in conjunction with some kind of verbal or somatic component. This means that the fighter must perform a particular combat form (kata), stance, or must shout a particular phrase in order to use the ability.</p>
                <p>Martial magic is always taught from master to student. It is a closely guarded secret of warrior secret societies, secluded martial arts temples, or families with great fighting traditions. Once a warrior masters the traditional (non-supernatural) combat arts, he may be taught martial magic. Since martial magic is highly dependent on particular combat forms and stances, it is nearly impossible to learn on one&#x2019;s own or from a book.</p>
                <p>Magical effects that ordinarily require touch do so for the martial magician as well. This is normally done by striking the target with some kind of melee attack. The character does not have to deal damage per se (if the target is wearing armor) but he must connect with a solid blow. The magical energy (effect) is transferred through the blow. Martial magic users may choose to use a normal touch instead.</p>
                <p>Magical effects that are projectile in nature (such as Fireball) and normally require a strike roll must be used in conjunction with a missile or projectile weapon of some kind (thrown weapon, arrow, dart, or even a bullet).</p>
                <p>Magical effects that are autotargeting when performed by a spellcaster (such as Lightning Bolt) are no longer autotargeting. The Super Power combatant must strike with any attack of his choice, which may be a ranged attack or a melee attack.</p>
                <p>The effects of a martial magic spell are in addition to those normally associated with a strike in combat. If a martial artist punches a target and also performs the spell Vampiric Drain, then the target will suffer normal damage from the Punch, as well as the damage and effects from Vampiric Drain. Likewise, if a martial magician shoots a target with an arrow in conjunction with Energy Blast, then both the arrow and Energy Blast deal damage.</p>
                <p>Martial magic works similar to spellcasting, with the following notes:</p>
                <ul class="itemized-list">
                  <li>
                    <p>MP are consumed just like spellcasting</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Touch spells require a successful strike roll in combat</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Ranged spells require a missile weapon of some kind</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Auto-target spells are nowcastby a WIL check of the user</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Martial Magic spells are learned/purchased just like normal Spells</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Martial Magic users must have at least 1 level in Mysticism</p>
                  </li>
                </ul>
                <p>Rather than purchasing the Spellcasting skill, a Super Power Fighter adds together his skill level of Martial Arts and Mysticism. The total is considered the skill level of &#x201C;Martial Magic&#x201D;</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Mysticism / Psionics</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Psionics is the ability to perform magic or supernatural acts by pure force of will. No incantations, materials, or special preparation is required. A character that can perform these feats is called a Mystic.</p>
                <p>Whereas most magic users have trained to develop their abilities, Mystic characters are more often &#x201C;gifted&#x201D; with magical abilities. Quite often these powers manifest themselves as a result of a traumatic event, such as a near-fatal accident, that is experienced by the character. They may also be abilities that are passed down through a particular family&#x2014;in which case the character is simply born with his unique powers. Mystic characters have an innate ability to perform their abilities&#x2014;which are completely independent of any kind of structured &#x201C;method&#x201D; or &#x201C;technique&#x201D;. While mystic characters might join magical societies they cannot &#x201C;learn&#x201D; or &#x201C;teach&#x201D;mystic techniques to others. Psionic abilities are something that a mystic discovers herself.</p>
                <p>Mystic rules:</p>
                <ul class="itemized-list">
                  <li>
                    <p>MP are consumed just like spellcasting</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>No verbal, somatic, or material components are required. A mystic can be totally still and silent and can sill use his abilities, though the time required to perform (use) a mystic ability is exactly the same as standard spellcasting.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Spells are purchased from the spell list at will. There is no need to follow a particular category. The only restriction is that learned spells must be no higher level than the characters Mysticism skill.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Mystics always use the WIL attribute for magic-related rolls, such as Magical Control, regardless of the normal attribute that would be used for that roll.</p>
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Beast Magic (summoning)</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Beast Magic is a unique magic school. It is the art of summoning creatures to aid their master. Any magic user (spellcasting, ritual, etc.) may purchase summoning spells as normal. However, a spellcaster that specializes in Beast Magic (and has no other magical aptitudes) may purchase summoning spells as if they are one rank lower than normal.</p>
                <p>There are five basic summoning spells:</p>
                <dl class="description-list">
                  <dt>
                    <p>Gate</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>allows the summoner to call forth a creature that appears somewhere near the caster. The location of appearance must be within direct line of sight of the caster, and no more than 30 feet away. Once the creature appears, it is free to do whatever it wants based on its own free willthe caster simply transports it to a new location. It will return to its original location afterrounds.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Summon</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>allows the summoner to call forth a creature near the caster (like Gate). This creature is bound to follow SIMPLE directives given by the caster. The creature will not act in a hostile manner towards the caster. If a summoner casts another Summon spell while another one is currently active, he must make a Magical Control roll. Failure means that the new spell fails and the first expires immediately.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Pact</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>allows the caster to form a complex bond with a creature, making that creature his Familiar. The caster must first find a creature to use pact withsuch as summoning the creature by gate or summon) The caster maycontrolthe creature in a manner similar to summon. This is permanent and lasts until either the caster or the Familiar is slain. If the caster casts Pact a while he already has a Familiar, the original spell expires and the caster suffers. While active, the Familar is aware of what happens to the caster, and vice versa. A basic empathic link exists between the creature and the caster. The caster may make a Magical Control check in order tolisten inon any of the familiars senses at any point in time.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Control</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>is very similar to summon except that the caster has exacting and specific control over the creature(s) summoned. The caster can literally operate the creature(s) as though byremote control. While Control is active, the summoner is responsible for literally every action made by the summoned creatureit has no will of its own.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Transform</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>is a powerful technique in which the caster takes the form of the creature summoned. The caster literally becomes the creature in question, but retains his own mental state and skills in addition to the skills of the summoned creature. All physical attributes (STR, DEX, BLD) of the summoned creature replace those of the character, but the character retains his own mental attributes (INT, WIS, WIL, CHA). This effect lasts 4xturns. It cannot be ended at will. The transformation requires three actions to complete. When the spell expires, the caster will be very tired, and will suffer the effects of slow, loosing 1 action per turn forturns.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dl>
                <p>These summon spells are used in conjunction with whatever creature &#x201C;spells&#x201D; a summoner knows. In order to learn a creature spell, the Summoner must have encountered such a creature. The rank of example creatures is shown below. For others, see the Beastiary section.</p>
                <p>These summon spells are used in conjunction with whatever creature &#x201C;spells&#x201D; a summoner knows. In order to learn a creature spell, the Summoner must have encountered such a creature. The rank of example creatures is shown below. For others, see the Beastiary section.</p>
                <div class="figure">
                  <table class="display-table">
                    <caption>
                      <p>Summonable animals by Rank</p>
                    </caption>
                    <thead>
                      <th>
                        <p>Rank</p>
                      </th>
                      <th width="3.5in">
                        <p>Spell (choose specifically)</p>
                      </th>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>1</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Insects, songbirds, rats, mice, other small rodents, frogs/toads, salamanders, misc. other small reptiles or amphibians.</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>2</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Dogs, cats, exotic small animals, larger birds (crow, raven, owl, etc.), common snakes. Raccoon, possum, etc. Bats, small flying/gliding mammals. Wallaby.</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>3</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Very large dogs, Cow, goat, sheep, deer, antelope. Large predatory birds (hawk, eagle), large reptiles (small crocodile, monitor lizard, large snake). Lesser monkeys. Lynx, Kangaroo</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>4</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Crocodile, Horse, Bull. Exotic 4-legged animals. Large constricting snakes. Apes.</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>5</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Hippo, Cape buffalo, Lion, Black Bear</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>6</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>Elephant, Rhinocerous, Grizzly or Polar bear. Mammoth</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                    </tbody>
                  </table>
                </div>
                <p>For generic animals follow the table above. For very specific, exotic, or rare animals jump to the next higher rank. (Example: Summon Frog: rank 1. Summon Brazilian Poison-dart frog: rank 2.)</p>
                <p>Whenever a summoning spell is cast the Summoner must make a Magical Control skill check. The negative to the roll is the total summoning rank(s) of the creatures to be summoned. A summoner can attempt to summon multiple of the same creature simultaneously, but not a mixture of different creatures. The caster has a bonus to this check based on what &#x201C;Beast Lore&#x201D;skills he knows.</p>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Magic-Related Skill Summary</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <ul class="itemized-list">
                  <li>
                    <p>Spellcasting gives additional. This is the governing skill for learning Invocation spells.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Magical Studies is the academic study of magic and how it works. It also gives the player the ability to identify magical items or effects (a simple skill test), and to determine what a particular magical item/effect does (GM determines difficulty of the test). It also conveys the ability to read and write magical script. This skill does not convey the ability to use magic; this skill does not provide MP.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Magical Control gives additional, and is used to strike with and to control the effects of some spells. While this skill is not required for magic use, it is commonly used.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Mysticism gives an additional. This is the governing skill for learning Mystic / Psionic spells.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Faith is not technically a magic skill. However, it is used for Faith magic, and provides. Faith only provides MP to those characters who actually know Faith magic spells. If a non-faith spellcaster has this skill (For example, a Wizard that also happens to be religious) then it does NOT provide any MP.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    <p>Ritual Magic is used for Ritual Magic spells. No character can learn a ritual spell with a higher rank than her level of Ritual Magic. This skill does not provide MP.</p>
                  </li>
                </ul>
                <p>There exist different types or categories of magic. The different types of magic are:</p>
                <dl class="description-list">
                  <dt>
                    <p>Air</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Air magic is varied and effective for combat mages. The lower rank spells are a mixture between utility types and damaging spells. The higher level combat spells are quite powerful. Air magic contains Lightning spells, which have wildly varying damage potential.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Life</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Life magic is capable of curing the wounded, healing the sick, and even inflicting horrible diseases upon your opponents. It is a favorite of religious orders, either for good or evil. Most combat magic in this category is limited because the spells require touch to cast. Some spells are capable of dealing a great deal of damage, but usually over a period of time. Sufficiently advanced mages who practice life magic can raise the dead or kill the living with a simple gesture.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Spiritual</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Magic of the Spiritual category is uncommon at best. With relatively few low-rank spells it is usually reserved to advanced practitioners of magic. However, it has some unique spells that make it very effective. Spiritual magic is particularly well suited for combating demons or spirits. Higher level mages can lay waste to legions of their enemies with single spell.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Light</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>With few exceptions, Light magic is a utility category. It can be used to illuminate dark passages beneath the earth or deceive with illusion and tricks. Light magic has many useful spells, many of which are available at low or middle levels. It is a very useful type of magic for the rogue or healer-type character who wants to be useful but doesnt want to fight. A few high level light spells can deal excellent damage, but only at a steep MP cost.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Physical</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Physical magic is an excellent choice fordual-classedcharacters that practice magic and also fight in melee combat. At lower and middle levels, physical magic allows one to improve the abilities of others, and to manipulate the physical world with magic. He can also repair broken weapons or mend machines. At higher levels the school offers very effective defensive spells and the highly effective gravity-based offensive magic, which always deals solid damage.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Arcane</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Arcane magic has no direct offensive capability; this would appear to be a weak form of magic that has little use for an adventurer. However, the ability of arcane magic to support, enhance, and empower the caster or his allies is unmatched. It is excellent when paired with other magic of a more offensive nature.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Fire</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Fire magic is a traditional offensive type of magic. Its spells deal high damage and are without equal for causing large-scale destruction. They are also quite mana-efficient. However, fire magic is the easiest of allsupernaturalattacks to defend against. Fire magic is also noisy, flashy, and very intimidating to ones opponents. Unfortunatley, this makes it nearly impossible to use in a stealthy manner.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Earth</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Earth magic is a varied school that combines defensive and offensive spells. While neither type of spell is the most powerful available, they are not to be underestimated. Earth magic has a number of very useful utility spells.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Water</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>At lower levels, water magic is fairly weak, though it does combine both offensive and defensive spells. Middle ranks offer effective protection and more effective combat spells. Higher-level water magic is legendary in effectiveness and is very powerful, Though many of the offensive spells have a long casting time, they are nearly impossible to defend against.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dl>
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>General notes</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <p>Most spells automatically succeed (there is no skill check necessary, except for Faith Magic). Once cast, it is possible for some spells to miss their target however. For these spells, the player must make a skill test using Magical Control (or Faith) to determine if the strike is successful. See the spell listing for what spells are auto-targeting and which aren&#x201D;t.</p>
            <p>If the player is interrupted while spell casting (e.g. takes damage, gets knocked around, etc.), he must make a skill check (Magical Control). If he fails the check, the spell fails, but the MP are not lost.</p>
            <div class="note">
              <p>The caster may not speak while spellcasting, but may move around, dodge, and perform very simple physical activities.</p>
            </div>
            <p>A spell always takes effect at the end of the casting period. The MP are consumed at the exact instant that the spell takes effect.</p>
            <p>A casting time of zero (0) means that the caster may cast the spell anytime, even in response to something (e.g. getting shot at), or having no actions remaining at the time. Such spells require no command words, components, or gesturing of any kind.</p>
            <p>Note that a Faith magic caster must always make a Faith roll in order to cast any magical spell.</p>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Magic Points (MP)</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>Any character has innate MP; magic related skills will give additional MP.</p>
                <p>MP are consumed whenever spells are cast. They are recovered according to the following chart:</p>
                <div class="figure">
                  <table class="display-table">
                    <caption>
                      <p>Mana Point replacement per hour.</p>
                    </caption>
                    <thead>
                      <th/>
                      <th/>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>Strenuous Activity:</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>0 per hour</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>Normal Activity:</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>5 per hour</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>Restful Activity:</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>10 per hour</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>Sleeping:</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>20 per hour</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                      <tr>
                        <td>
                          <p>Meditation or prayer:</p>
                        </td>
                        <td>
                          <p>20 per hour</p>
                        </td>
                      </tr>
                    </tbody>
                  </table>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Magical &#x201C;Tools&#x201D;: Books, Scrolls, and Potions</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <p>There exist three different kinds of magic-related books.</p>
                <p>Type 1 is a volume that contains detailed information on how to cast a particular spell (or spells). Books of this type are always written in magical script. Anyone with the Magical Studies skill can read and understand this kind of book. However, only those with Spellcasting can make real use of the contents. A Spellcasting character can easily learn new spells from a book of this type. Books of this type are very valuable. The cost of a spell book like this is equal to the &#x201C;Book&#x201D; price column of the magic table. If the book contains multiple spells, then its value is equal to the sum of the costs for each spell contained. Generally speaking, books of this type only contain multiple spells when they are compendia of low-level spells in a given school of magic.</p>
                <p>Type 2 is a volume that describes how to perform a particular spell in ritual format. Books of this type might be written in any language, and are generally not written in magical script. If a Ritual magic using character can read a book of this type, it is something like a cookbook for a particular ritual spell. The character could keep the book as a reference or could use it to learn the ritual described. Ritual spell manuals are worth approximately one-quarter the cost of a Type 1 book.</p>
                <p>Type 3 is a book that describes other forms of magic. Since Faith magic, Martial Magic, and Mysticism are dependant on the individual &#x201C;casting&#x201D; the spell and not on some external &#x201C;formula&#x201D; or &#x201C;recipe&#x201D;, it is essentially impossible to truly document how to perform a given spell with nothing more than a book. These books are of interest to sages and scholars who are interested in arcane subjects. However, they are little more than a curiosity to actual practitioners of magic. Given enough books of this type it is possible for a sufficiently advanced magical practitioner to figure out a new spell or technique, but it is no guarantee. Books of this type are worth approximatley one-tenth of the listed price, depending on the exact subject matter contained within the volume. They may be written in any language.</p>
                <p>Magical potions or scrolls are single-use magic spells. Anybody can use a potion or scroll&#x2014;whether they know anything about magic or not. Spells that affect the caster or a willing recipient are potions. Drinking the potion causes the spell to take effect. Other spells take the form of scrolls. Reading the scroll aloud causes the spell to take effect. Both scrolls and potions are single-use only. Potions can be drunk in one action. Scrolls ALWAYS take 3 actions to use regardless of the spell.</p>
                <p>A person with Magical Studies can create Books, Scrolls, and Potions of any spell he/she knows. Producing such works is a long and expensive process:</p>
                <dl class="description-list">
                  <dt>
                    <p>Books</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Requires a number of days equal to twice the rank of the spell squared to create. No MP are required, but special precious inks and paper are required. These materials cost approximately half the value of the book.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Scrolls/Potions</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Requireto create. They require MP equal to a normal casting of the spell to be expended, and require precious materials valued at not less than three-quarters the value of the finished item. A ritualist may prepare a potion in half that time.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dl>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Magic Terminology &amp; Misc.</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <dl class="description-list">
                  <dt>
                    <p>Black</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>spells are those associated with evil, death energy, and demonic influence. While they are not necissiarily evil, they are generally indescriminate in their targets. Black spells never affect demons, undead, or targets that are not living, such as ghosts or robots.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>White</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>spells are those that are comprised of life energy. They are technically notgoodaligned, though they are a favorite of good religious orders. White spells that cause damage only affect demons, undead, and spirits.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dt>
                    <p>Auto</p>
                  </dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>spells are those that are automatically targeting. That means that once cast the spell will never miss or malfunction. However, in order to cast an auto-targeting spell, the caster must be able to clearly see and identify his target.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dl>
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Schools</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Air</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <div class="reference" name="Magic-Air">
                  <a class="hrid" href="Magic-Air.xhtml">Magic-Air</a>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Arcane</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <div class="reference" name="Magic-Arcane">
                  <a class="hrid" href="Magic-Arcane.xhtml">Magic-Arcane</a>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Beast</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <div class="reference" name="Magic-Beast">
                  <a class="hrid" href="Magic-Beast.xhtml">Magic-Beast</a>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Earth</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <div class="reference" name="Magic-Earth">
                  <a class="hrid" href="Magic-Earth.xhtml">Magic-Earth</a>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Fire</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <div class="reference" name="Magic-Fire">
                  <a class="hrid" href="Magic-Fire.xhtml">Magic-Fire</a>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Life</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <div class="reference" name="Magic-Life">
                  <a class="hrid" href="Magic-Life.xhtml">Magic-Life</a>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Light</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <div class="reference" name="Magic-Light">
                  <a class="hrid" href="Magic-Light.xhtml">Magic-Light</a>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Physical</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <div class="reference" name="Magic-Physical">
                  <a class="hrid" href="Magic-Physical.xhtml">Magic-Physical</a>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Spirit</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <div class="reference" name="Magic-Spirit">
                  <a class="hrid" href="Magic-Spirit.xhtml">Magic-Spirit</a>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div class="section">
              <h1 class="title">
                <p>Water</p>
              </h1>
              <div class="section-body">
                <div class="reference" name="Magic-Water">
                  <a class="hrid" href="Magic-Water.xhtml">Magic-Water</a>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>