<?xml version="1.0"?>
<table class="category" name="Content/Martial Arts/Special">
  <thead name="titles" class="titles">
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>MetaTag</th>
    <th>Type</th>
    <th>Rank</th>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Implementation</th>
  </thead>
  <thead name="display" class="display">
    <th>Title</th>
    <th>None</th>
    <th>Table</th>
    <th>Table</th>
    <th>Table</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>None</th>
  </thead>
  <thead name="format" class="format">
    <th/>
    <th/>
    <th>l</th>
    <th>l</th>
    <th>l</th>
    <th/>
    <th/>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Disarm</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Special</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>An attempt to disarm the opponent using technical skill. This cannot be used to disarm integral weapons such as fists or claws. The opponent must make a Strength check with a negative equal to twice your level in Disarm. If they fail, the weapon is dropped.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Fiendish Maneuver</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Special</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Intelligence</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You take extra care with your attacks in order to set up your opponent for an especially devastating attack later on. You may 'save' up to LVL dice from your to-strike rolls and&#x2013;or LVL damage from various attacks versus a specific target. Then, on your final attack, you may add your 'saved' to-strike dice and&#x2013;or damage (as raw bonus). All these attacks must be made without interruption and must be made versus one specific target. All attacks must be melee attacks, and must be made with the same weapon(s). For example, suppose you have LVL 1 fiendish maneuver and LVL 3 Small Swords. You are fighting an armored knight. You make an attack and roll 2 dice to strike (saving one to-strike die). As well, you subtract 1 from your damage roll for that attack. On your next attack versus the same armored knight, you then roll 4 dice to strike and add [+1] damage.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Hurl</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Special</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You throw a melee weapon as though it were a missile weapon, enabling you to attack from a distance. Roll to strike using Hurl, however the damage dealt is equal to the damage normally done by the weapon that you throw. You do not have to be proficient with the weapon that you choose to Hurl, and you do not get a STR bonus to damage. However, strike penalties from MSR do still apply. The maximum thrown range is 50&#x2013;(encumbrance 1) feet. This is considered a missile attack for the purposes of defense. When you use hurl you throw the weapon and let go of it in the process. Thereafter, the weapon is no longer in your possession.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Isolate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Special</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>An Isolation is an attack that the martial artist performs against a target that has already been grappled. Isolation takes one action. The target takes <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span> per LVL. An Isolation requires a successful grapple before being executed. Once the Isolation is performed, the grapple is automatically released. The target cannot defend against an Isolation outside of supernatural means. (Isolations cannot be dodged, parried, or blocked).</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Rend Limb-from-Limb</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Special</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You attempt to rip off a limb from a target that you have already grappled. The target must be successfully grappled first. If the character rolls a number of successes equal to one-half the STR of the target, the grappled limb is ripped off. This deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">8</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> * SIZE. The grapple is automatically released at this point.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Snatch Weapon</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Special</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>If you succesfully Disarm an opponent (with the Disarm skill), or Parry a missile or thrown weapon, you may attempt to acquire the weapon. If you succeed on your Snatch Weapon, you now have control of the weapon. If you fail Snatch Weapon, you are hit, even if the weapon would not have hit you before.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Strike on Draw</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Special</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>On a successful Quick Draw, the character may strike an opponent without using an action, if she fails, she loses all of her actions for this turn.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Unarmed Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Special</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>The skill of fighting and defending oneself with body weapons. This could be thought of as a basic fist fighting or brawling skill; also applicable to simple hand-to-hand defense knowledge. This skill is used to strike or defend in combat with hand-to-hand attacks and body weapons (claws, fangs, etc.) Unarmed combat strikes use the same damage as normal kicks&#x2013;punches, etc, however unarmed combat blows cannot be modified. (This is the skill of a 'thug' or 'brute' character or an animal&#x2013;it is not representative of a trained warrior). Without this skill all hand-to-hand blows are considered "stunning" blows and not "lethal" blows.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
