<?xml version="1.0"?>
<table class="category" name="Content/Martial Arts/Combat">
  <thead name="titles" class="titles">
    <th width="l" class="Title">Name</th>
    <th width="l" class="None">MetaTag</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Type</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Rank</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Attribute</th>
    <th width="l" class="Description">Description</th>
    <th width="l" class="None">Implementation</th>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ambidexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You are trained to fight with two weapons simultaneously. Each skill level reduces the dual-wield penalty by 1 point for each hand. Note that no matter the level of Ambidexterity, it can never provide a positive bonus; it can only reduce or remove the normal penalty.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Candlestick is ambidextrous</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Candlestick has 3 levels of ambidexterity; he has -0 to strike with his good hand and -3 to strike with the off hand. If Candlestick had 6 levels of ambidexterity he would no negative at all when attacking with his<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mn>2</mn><mi>nd</mi></msup></math>weapon, and a -3 with his<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mn>3</mn><mi>rd</mi></msup></math>weapon, for instance if he were doing two punches and a kick.</p>
        </div>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Blind Fighting</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Perception</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You have experience fighting when your vision is compromised or obscured due to injury, darkness, smoke, or other impediments to your vision. Each level in Blind Fighting reduces the negative to fighting blind by 2; it may not be used to add a positive bonus. Blind Fighting is only effective for ranges less than 5*LVL feet. Blind Fighting does not mitigate strike penalties for cover.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Burden</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You are experienced at fighting while carrying large amounts of weight or encumbering loads, especially armor. This skill adds 3*LVL to the Encumbrance sub-attribute.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Encumbrance += 3*Level;</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Combat Casting</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Willpower</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You may cast spells in combat. Without this skill, if you are struck or must defend, you automatically fail to cast any spell and you lose the Mana Points. With this skill, if you fail your defensive roll, then the spell fails, but the Mana Points are not lost. You only ever need one level in Combat Casting. All spells you cast now count as Special skills for the purpose of modification, etc. with Martial Arts. For the purposes of Jitsu, Waza, etc., alls spells are considered to be a Special skill whose name is Spell.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Ulek&#x2019;s Fire-Bomb</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Ulek finds himself having to blast the crap out of opponents&#x2014;standing right next to him. He gets a level in Jitsu and picks Spell (Combat Casting). He then gets a Waza combining Fireball and Minor Teleport. Now, when an opponent get&#x2019;s too close, he can fire-off his Fireball&#x2013;Minor Teleport (given that he has enough actions).</p>
        </div>
        <p>As in Ulek&#x2019;s case, note that the effect of the spells are delayed until the last spell comes into effect. If order is important, this is determined by the Mage; the effects can &#x201C;cross-cut.&#x201D;</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Combat Etiquette</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Charisma</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>The skill of how to engage in &#x201C;gentlemanly,&#x201D; &#x201C;honorable&#x201D; or &#x201C;face-saving&#x201D; combat (duels, sport-combat, etc.). This includes battle-field code-of-conduct, rituals, battle-cries, cheers, negotation, the art of surrender etc. In any situation in which negotation must occur during the duress of combat, the Combat Etiquette skill must be checked first. Without this skill it is impossible in most cases to attempt to negotiate with the opposing party.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Bratzefv negotiates peace</p>
          </h1>
          <p>In the dark Bratzefv, bumped into some strangers and they began to fight, his gut-instinect tells him that this was just an accident and he wants to call out to his opponents that they should stop and talk. He rolls his Combat Etiquette and has two successes; his opponents are not particularly eager to fight, and decide to stop and talk.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Viterexia honorably slays her opponent</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Viterexia has just defeated the Warrior Mother of the Umex Clan in a single combat at the center of a stadium filled with 20,000 Umescis. Upon rolling Trivia and Combat Etiquette she realizes that she should cut off her opponents head, or the Warrior Mother will be forever disgraced and the Umescis will descend upon her and rip her to pieces. With a flourish and a cry she swings her Grand Sabre down and holds up the grisly prize.</p>
        </div>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Combat Terrain</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Wisdom</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Understanding of combat terrain, troop movement, weather and combat condition impact on the terrain. Adds 3 to your Leadership rolls per level. Upon entering combat a character may spend actions to become familiar with the local terrain. Familiarity means that the character takes no minuses from slick, unlevel or otherwise difficult-to-traverse terrain, given that he has an appropriate skill knowledge (like acrobatics or Climb). This skill is rolled with a minus equal to the &#x201C;difficulty&#x201D; of the terrain and a bonus of LVL*Actions-spent-studying. If the character is familiar with the local terrain then if he has to dodge by &#x201C;throwing himself to the ground&#x201D; he gets an additional die. The character is also acutely aware in changes in the environment and gets a bonus to his Perception equal to 2*LVL in Combat Terrain.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Combat Training</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Wisdom</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Knowledge and practical experience with combat. The primary bonus is that for each LVL in combat training gain one move-equivalent action. The characteris also familiar with appropriate strategies of order-of-battle and platoon, developing enfilading fire, retreat, modes of advance, etc. If multiple characters have Combat Training, then simple (standard) combat maneuvers can be carried out without verbal (only visual) communication, given that they have trained together for at least one week prior. With simple verbal commands or hand-signals, highly-developed or coordinated maneuvers can be carried out (the requirement of previous group practice still holds). Characters may also attack and defend &#x201C;as a unit,&#x201D; thus if two characters have Combat Training and are immediately adjacent to each other (typically 5 feet), then when initiative is rolled, they can choose to take either of the rolled initiatives.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Myk and Travis: the Machine</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Myk and Travis have trained together as years: Myk uses sword-and-shield, and Travis with the polearm. They both have three levels in Combat Training. Travis has three levels in Readiness. At the beginning of combat they both roll initiative, Myk rolls (and gets) a 12, Travis rolls an 11, with his Readiness he has<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mn>11</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>6</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>17</mn></mrow></math>. Both Myk and Travis choose to go on the iniative of 17.</p>
        </div>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Fast Move</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You are particular quick on your feet in combat. Add LVL to your Movement.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Speed += Level;</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Great Weapon</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You are especially skilled at handling very large weapons. You are assumed to have 1 STR per LVL for the purposes of weapon use only; but only for weapon-use. This effects your Minimum Strength Requirement and your Raw Damage bonus.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Jitsu</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Wisdom</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>For each level in Jitsu pick one Special or one Defensive skill that the martial artist already knows. This special skill is now considered a Basic skill, and may be modified and used as a Basic skill.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Myk&#x2019;s Deadly Reciprocal Attack</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Myk is typically out-of-range of any opponent because he uses a Gladius, while Travis uses a 14' Yari. Most of the time, Myk focuses on defending himself and Travis using Defend Other. However, because he has such fantastic armor (and gets hit a lot defending Travis), he really wants to be able to &#x201C;lay down the law&#x201D;; with his Reciprocal Attack. When he takes his<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mn>3</mn><mi>rd</mi></msup></math>level in Jitsu, he chooses Reciprocal Attack as his skill; from now on Myk can modify Reciprocal Attack as if it were a Basic attack; in particular he has 3 levels in Deadly he plans to use...</p>
        </div>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Kata</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Wisdom</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>For each level in Kata choose a Basic attack, a Modifier for that Basic attack, and any 0- or 1-action Skill (any!). All three of these skills are performed as a skill action. All three must be rolled independently, and succeed or fail on their own. Each combination is considered a Special attack.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Running a Polearm</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Travis is tired of having those damn spry Elves &#x201C;run&#x201D; his polearm, his original problem was penetrating their armor, but by purchasing his Legendy Yari and learning the Reciprocal Attack Jitsu he&#x2019;s been doing better. However, he&#x2019;s picked up a little magic, and would like to be able to Bash his opponent to increase the damage he deals, following by a Blink to get the hell out of the way. So he buys a level in Jitsu and makes Reciprocal Attack a Basic skill. He then choose Reciprocal Attack, Bash, and Blink for the first level he buys in Kata.</p>
        </div>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Kung Fu</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Wisdom</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Pick a Basic skill and a Modifier, this then becomes a new Rank 1 Special skill. Note that this a different mechanism than Jitsu; for Jitsu each level you purchase converts one Special or Defensive skill into a Basic skill, whereas Kung Fu generates a new skill that is a combination of the Basic and Modifier skill you chose. Buying more levels in Kung Fu is the same as buying levels in both skills (cheaper, but less flexible). A martial artist may purchase many different combinations of Kung Fu, as suits him. If the martial artist choose a Basic skill that has variable Rank, then the total cost of Kung Fu is just the variable cost of the of the Basic skill. You may not use a variable cost Special skill in Kung Fu.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Quick Draw</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>The ability to draw a weapon as fast as possible; a successful quickdraw roll means that the weapon is drawn using 0 actions. Failure means that the next action is used (even if that is the first action of the next turn). The more complicated the attempt the more successes are needed, thus quickdrawing a pistol from a holster at the waist is one success, a hidden knife in a leg holster might require three, etc.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Quick Holster</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>On a successful roll, reholster a weapon in zero time, failure means the character uses an action, if there are no actions left for the character this turn, it uses the first action of her next turn.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Quick Load</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>The ability to reload a gun, bow, or crossbow as quickly as possible. On a successful skill roll, the character can replace a magazine, use a speed loader in a revolver, draw and nock an arrow, or pump a shotgun without using an action. For bows, this will reduce the recover time by 1 action per level automatically. Failure implies that the normal time was required (and must be spent) even if this is an action next round.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Readiness</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Perception</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Add 2*LVL to all quick- skills and 2*LVL to your initiative.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Initiative += 2*Level;</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Resist Wounds</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Willpower</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You are able to resist fatigue and pain and can keep active when others would fall. You gain +2 per level to your WIL rolls to resist falling unconscious or to regain consciousness from stunning attacks, knock-out attacks, painful blows, torture, falling below 1 Hit Point, and similar circumstances.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Taunt</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Charisma</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Spend an action in communication with the opponent; that opponent must make a WIL save with a negative equal to your LVL in taunt, or must target you instead.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Toughness</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Build</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>The martial artist is unusually sturdy and well built; his training and combat experience has hardened the skin and bones. Each level of Toughness provides a 1 bonus to P&#x2013;S&#x2013;C (as natural armor).</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Piercing += Level; Crushing += Level; Slashing += Level;</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Waza</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Varies</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Varies</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Pick any two Basic skills, this Waza is considered a Special skill that is the combination of the two skills. This is similar to Kung Fu. The total Rank of this skill is one less than the sum of the Ranks of the two Basic skills.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Ragnar&#x2019;s Bar Fights</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Ragnar finds himself in more barfights than he wants, and decides that (a) nothing says &#x201C;I&#x2019;m serious&#x201D;more than a Barrel Charge but (b) he&#x2019;d rather throw a punch or two into the whole operation. As a result he picks up a new Waza combining Barrel Charge with a Rank 2 Punch/Kick at 2 levels. This means the Waza has 1+2-1=2 Rank, and at level 2, would cost 6 C.P. Note that Ragnar cannot further Modify this skill because it is Special.</p>
        </div>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Weapon Burden</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Recovery time is reduced by LVL.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Recovery -= Level</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
