<?xml version="1.0"?>
<table class="category" name="Content/Equipment/Armor">
  <thead name="titles" class="titles">
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>MetaTag</th>
    <th>Cost</th>
    <th>Note</th>
    <th>Encumbrance</th>
    <th>Piercing</th>
    <th>Slashing</th>
    <th>Crushing</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Implementation</th>
  </thead>
  <thead name="display" class="display">
    <th>Title</th>
    <th>None</th>
    <th>Table</th>
    <th>Table</th>
    <th>Table</th>
    <th>Table</th>
    <th>Table</th>
    <th>Table</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>None</th>
  </thead>
  <thead name="format" class="format">
    <th/>
    <th/>
    <th>l</th>
    <th>l</th>
    <th>p{2em}</th>
    <th>p{2em}</th>
    <th>p{2em}</th>
    <th>p{2em}</th>
    <th/>
    <th/>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>ALCAR Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>13</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>ALCAR plate is heavy armor developed for use in military and SWAT applications. It consists of a helmet, long-sleeved jacket and pants. The suit is made of heavy ballistic nylon which is covered with form-fitting ALuminum-CARbon plates which cover the vast majority of the body.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Articulated Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>32700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Articulated plate represents the finest acheivement of the blacksmith-armorer. It consists of a full suit of form-fitting and overlapping metal plates that cover the entire body from head to toe. The superior joints in articulated plate provide much better mobility than standard full plate. Articulated plate must be made specifically for a given wearer.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>BSP Linked Plate Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>29300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire x2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This armor was developed for strategic depolyment by special forces soldiers and elite personal security details. It offers superior protection to armors of similar weight. This armor consists of a Spectra sleeved vest and matching pants. The entire suit is covered with polymeric plates reenforced with boron nanotubes. The thickness and shape of the plates is optimized to provide good mobility and protection.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ballistics Cloth (Heavy)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Heavy bulletproof vest with a trauma plate in the chest area.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ballistics Cloth (Light)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A very light bulletproof vest. This is typically used by undercover police or anyone that needs unobtrusive protection.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ballistics Cloth (Standard)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A typical Kevlar bulletproof vest. Very commonly issued to soldiers and police.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Banded Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6200</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A leather suit covered in overlapping and layered metal plates that curve around the body.  Popularized by the Roman Centurion</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Beast Leather</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Especially strong leather armor.  The leather comes from especially tough or large wild animals rather than domestically-raised animals, thus the leather is stronger.  Example:  Elephant or Rhino hide, wild boar, etc.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Biker's Leathers</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Leather suit worn by motorcycle racers. The suit is specially tailored to fit the rider while in the ridng position. This, size is considered to be zero when the rider is on a motorcycle.  Motorcycle leathers are often decorated with bright colors and brand or racing team logos.  The best leathers are custom-fit for the wearer.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Boron-Ceramic Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>27500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire x3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This high-tech armor is typically marketed to private security and mercenaries as it is generally too heavy for use by typical police or military forces. It consists of incredibly tough dual-phase plate armor over a spectra inner suit. This armor is exceptionally resistant to battle damage and is capable of absorbing a remarkable amount of damage before becoming unusuable.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Brigandine</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Brigandine armor is made from a heavy cloth or supple leather tunic that is fitted with a regular pattern of rectangular iron plates. It covers the body from the neck to mid-thigh, and also covers the shoulders.  It provides good protection but it is not particularly durable.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>CLAF Suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>CLAF armor is the trade name for &#x201C;Cross-Linked Aramid Fiber&#x201D;. This armor is a technologically superior &#x201C;bulletproof vest&#x201D; which covers the chest, torso, and groin area. CLAF armor is common amongst police in affluent precincts and is also issued to some frontline infantry troops fielded by wealthy nations</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>CLB&#x2013;WAF Suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>19000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>CLB-WAF, called &#x201C;Clubwaf&#x201D; or simply "Club" by it&#x2019;s wearers, is the most effective &#x201C;bulletproof vest&#x201D; developed. It consists of a Spectra-boron nanocomposite thread that is woven into armored cloth. This armor delivers remarkable protection but is light enough to be used by beat cops and common soldiers.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Carbon Fiber Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>17000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire, Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This is the modern equivalent of plate mail armor. Unlike it's historical equivalent, this armor is made of lightweight composites rather than hand-hammered steel. It also incorporates flexible joints which means that it is nearly universal in fitment. It consists of high saturation 3D carbon fiber matix plates impregnated with semimetallic resins. This armor is typically used by SWAT and Military units.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ceramic Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>24800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire x3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Ceramic Plate armor was developed as an outgrowth of vehicle armor research. Ceramic Plate consists of large, scuplted plates that closely fit the body. The joints are unarmored. Though it is an uncommon choice for military or police use, it is very popular amonst freelance mercenaries and adventurers due to its excellent fire resistance.  It is commonly used for bomb disposal technicians where its heavy weight is justifiable and its fire resistance is a major plus.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Chain Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Chain mail consists of an armored vest (Hauberk), hood (coif), and pants. The armor is a very flexible fabric that is made of thousands of interlocking metal rings. Typically this is worn over padded armor as the rings are known for chafing against bare skin.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Chain and Brigandine</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A chain mail suit covered with thick metal plates which add extra protection to the shoulders, torso, and thighs.  This is much more durable than standard brigandine because it is based on a chain shirt rather than a cloth one.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Cloth</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Heavy clothing that is not true "military armor" but is nonetheless designed for protection from the enviornment.  For example, a woodsman's coveralls, welder's suit, blacksmith's apron, etc.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Densematter Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>30000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire x3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>17</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Densematter plate is extremely heavy plate armor which is made from metallic abotex which has been artificially densified using a particle accelerator.  It is extremely heavy and bulky but offers excellent damage blocking capability.  Its high cost and weight tends to restrict its use to special ops and bomb squads.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Double Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Double Mail is made from interlinked rings, similar to chain mail.  However, double mail uses a larger number of rings per unit area to provide additional resistance to being cut or punctured.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Elven Chain Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>17800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Supposedly invented by Elvish armorers, this is a superior form of chain mail made from exceptionally fine, hard steel rings that are interlinked in three dimensions.  It provides better protection than double mail, but it is lighter and easier to wear.  Its cheif disadvantage is its high cost.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Elysian Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>13300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This type of plate armor is made from thin and lightweight (but strong) metals including mithril and meteoric iron.  It covers the majority of the body with solid metal plates.  It provides excellent armor protection with very little weight compared to traditional plate armor.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Fiberglass Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Fiberglass Plate is a modern armor designed for duty in extremely hazardous enviornments, including terrorist-response scenarios where unconventional weapons or chemical/biological agents may be present.  It is made entirely from synthetic composites and plastics, with no metal of any kind.  Fiberglass plate consists of a hazmat-safe inner suit which covers the body from head to toe.  The inner suit is covered with removable hard plates which protect the torso, shoulders, upper arms, and thighs.  The hard plates are modular and removable (similar to football padding), to allow for easy repair in the field.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Field Plate aka 3/4 plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>13</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Field Plate encases the body nearly completely in a layer of steel--yet, it is light enough to allow a wide range of combat activities.  Field Plate consists of a chain mail suit which covers the entire body which is then covered with form-fitting steel plates and a heavy steel helmet.  Field Plate does not protect the hands, feet, or the insides of joints.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Fishback Ceramic</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This armor was designed for special-purpose military use.  It consists of a coat and pants fashioned from a tough synthetic cloth which is then covered with a layer of fire-retardant NOMEX.  The outer layer of the armor is covered with interlocking ceramic tiles.  These tiles resemble fish scales, hence the name.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Fishback Steel</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>This armor is constructed like Fishback Ceramic armor except it uses steel plates rather than ceramic ones.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Flak Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A thick, bulky vest that is padded and contains iron plates that cover vital areas of the chest and groin. (Millitary style as used in WWII and Vietnam)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Forged Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>27300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>17</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Metallurgically improved plate armor. It is the same encumberance but provides better protection.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Full Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A full chain mail suit completely covered with form fitting heavy steel plates</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Furs</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>200</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>cold weather clothing made from leather and layers of animal furs.  Modern versions exist which are made with synthetic insulation instead of (or in addition to) actual fur.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>G-Alloy Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>329700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard, Fire x5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>20</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>24</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Highly advanced semimetallic armor oriented on the molecular level</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Gi</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>martial arts costume</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>HC Aramid Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>42000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire, Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>16</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Heavy hard armor made from hard-cast semimetallic composite plates</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Hakama (cotton)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>200</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>martial arts costume</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Hakama (silk)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>martial arts costume</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Half Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A chain mail suit sparcely covered with thick, non-interlocking plates</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Hard Leather</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Similar to soft leather, except that the main pieces are made of hard tooled leather</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Heavy Jacket</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>50</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Any sort of unusually thick clothing&#x2013;like a parka, leather jacket, heavy denim, etc.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Heavy Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>33100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>18</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>16</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>19</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A suit of fully enclosed metal plate armor. The plates are thicker than normal for superior protection.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Jack/gravel coat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A cloak made of heavy cloth secured with leather straps. The surface is covered with small stones and bits of metal bonded and sewn in place.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Kevlar</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2200</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>armored clothing made from pure kevlar with normal cloth over it. Designed to be inconspicuous. (used by diplomats, etc.)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Knitted Steel</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Armor made from weaving steel wire into cloth</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Light Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A partial plate suit. It consists of a breast plate, shoulder plates and greaves. The plates are cut to maximize movement.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Linked Metal</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>secondary armor for millitary applications&#x2013;a network of metal plates over a cloth vest</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Mylar</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Thin armor material that is nearly impossible to cut</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Nomex</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>250</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire x 2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Tough clothing made from NOMEX fibers&#x2014;designed for fire protection. Worn by firefighters and emergency workers</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>PACA Mesh suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Millitary armor made from tough armored fibers and composite plastics</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>PLCALF Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>28900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire, Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>13</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Same as the above, with additional polymeric plates in key areas. This is the heaviest armor used by ultramodern SWAT forces.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Padded</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Heavy clothing lined with multiple layers of thick fur, padding, etc.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Polymer Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Light hard armor made from advanced polymeric plates over a kevlar suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>R-Polymer Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>11</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Polymeric hard armor containing steel inserts in all plates</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>RIR Hazard Suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2300</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Rubber-impregnated polyester fabric filled with dogbone-shaped interlocking metal bars. Protects against chemicals too.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Racer's Suit/Pilot's suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Fire x 2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Full body jumpsuit made of fireproof materials. Designed to save the life of race car drivers, pilots, etc, in the event of a crash or fire.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Reinforced Leather</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1200</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Very hard and stiff leather with inlaid metal reinforcements. The edges are ringed in metal.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Ring Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Large metal rings held together with leather straps</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Riot Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Standard SWAT armor: Ballistics cloth with metal plates in key locations</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>SEB Hard Armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>22000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Boron-composite plates over a spectra undersuit. Rare, generally used by special forces or elite units.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>SPECTRA</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>22700</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Improved version of Kevar, very flexible yet stands up well to piercing and slashing</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>SPECTRA Tactical Vest</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>14900</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A heavy bulletproof vest made from the improved SPECTRA material with a steel chestplate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Scale Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Hard leather armor covered in overlapping metal scales</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Scale-over-Chain</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A chain mail suit with additional metal scales covering the chain material</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Silk</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4400</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Armored robes made from woven silk threads.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Soft Leather</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>500</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Armored clothing made of pieces of thick, soft, leather sewn together</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Sorbothene</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1100</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A shock-damping suit made from a special rubber material</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Splint Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2600</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>8</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Soft leather armor covered with paralell vertical bands of iron</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Steel Plate</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2000</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Hard</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>12</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>9</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A modern version of full plate mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Stripped-Leather Mail</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>6</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Soft leather underlayment with multiple layers of hard leather straps held on by metallic buckles or rings. Creaks and makes noise when moving.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Tai Chi suit</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>250</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>martial arts costume</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Wyrmhide</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4800</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>5</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>7</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>The highest form of leather armor, made from only the toughest leather available, such as dragon hide.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
