<table class="category" name="Content/Equipment/Ammunition">
  <thead name="titles" class="titles">
    <th width="None" class="Title">Name</th>
    <th width="None" class="None">MetaTag</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Type</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Cost</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Damage</th>
    <th width="None" class="Description">Description</th>
    <th width="None" class="None">Implementation</th>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Anti-armor</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>P</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>15</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>-25%dmg</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A special type of arrowhead designed to penetrate heavy armor. They are expensive and time-consuming to produce, and therefore generally rare for military use (at least by common soldiers). The forged and hardened point is square or triangular in profile, carefully ground into a very sharp point.  These are available for arrows or crossbow bolts only.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Barbed</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>P</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Bonus 0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Common for hunting small game (especially birds), and also used for war. This is a standard arrow (bullet point) with several metallic barbs embedded in the head. It is difficult to remove, causing additional damage when it is pulled out of the target.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Broadhead (hunting)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>S</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>+1 Dmg</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>These are the most effective hunting arrows. They aren't great at penetrating heavy armor, but are excellent for causing additional damage to the target. This is particularly desirable for hunting, because it is likely to kill or incapacitate the target animal quickly, even if the vital organs are missed. A broadhead is a wide, diamond-shaped head that has two or more &#8220;fins&#8221; on it that are sharpened into blades&#8212;which cut a devastating wound in the target.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Bullet Point</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>P</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Bonus o</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>The &#8220;standard&#8221; type of arrow point. The tip is pointed, but somewhat blunt, like a rifle bullet. They are used for hunting small game, and for target shooting. They are also common arrows for some military use since they are easily and cheaply produced.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Bullet Point (blunt&#8211;target)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>P</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Bonus 0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A common military arrowhead. This is also the most common type of dart. The head is made of steel, and fashioned into a narrow cone&#8212;much like a pencil. These types of arrows are generally not used for hunting, but are very effective for wartime use.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Explosive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>C</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Bonus 0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>A rare arrow design, which features a hollow head packed with gunpowder or other light explosive. When it strikes the target, it makes a small explosion. This has excellent damage potential. Unfortunately, the large, fragile, head makes this type of arrow poor at penetrating armor.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Field Point (penetration)</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>P</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>10</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Bonus 0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>9 AP</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Fire Arrow</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>P</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Bonus 0</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>5AP, has fire effect, light before shooting.</p>
        <p>An arrow that is coated with cloth soaked in pitch, tar, kerosene, or some similar flammable material. It is set alight before firing. These arrows are commonly used for sending signals, and for setting enemy structures on fire&#8212;however, they are also effective for setting enemy soldiers on fire.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
