<?xml version="1.0"?>
<div class="chapter" timeperiod="*" category="Martial Arts">
  <h1 class="title">
    <p>Martial Arts</p>
  </h1>
  <div class="section-body">
    <div class="section">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Rules</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body">
        <p>Martial Arts covers the use of all weapons, hand-to-hand (HtH) combat, and the set of specialized skills that are associated with the Martial Arts governing skill. The maximum level that any character may have in any Martial Arts skill is less than or equal to his level in Martial Arts, i.e. if he has 3 Levels in Martial Arts, then all of his Martial Arts skills must be Level 3 or less. The basic Martial Art skill confers upon the martial artist the ability to purchase the different skills listed in this section.</p>
        <p>For each level the martial artist has in Martial Arts he may choose one Martial Arts skill that he already has; for this skill, any time the martial artist would have to roll the skill, he gets an extra die to do so. A skill may only be chosen Level-in-Martial Arts/2 times (the Lvl in Martial Arts, divided by two, rounded-down).</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Kim improves his Nyrkkeily</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Kim NGoc Goay is an expert in Norse Boxing (Nyrkkeily), he chooses, when he gets his first level in Martial Arts, he also buys a level in &#x201C;Punch/Kick;&#x201D; in particular, he also assigns his level-bonus to &#x201C;Punch/Kick.&#x201D; This means when he rolls to strike with a punch he rolls two dice and not one.</p>
        </div>
        <p>After the Martial Arts skill has been purchased, skills from the five basic categories may be acquired; the four categories represent different capabilities that Martial Arts covers. The four categories are Basic, Combat, Defensive, and Modifier. The different categories focus on different phases of Combat, such that Combat skills are designed to aid the Martial Artist with movement, entering/exiting combat, the knowledge of combat, deployment, and higher-level strategy. Basic skills are involved in the nitty-gritty (basic) postures and moves to actually strike the opponent and inflict harm or death. Defensive skills are designed to deflect, dodge, and/or otherwise avoid the mishap of being harmed by another pugilist. Modifiers represent ways to modify Basic skills.</p>
        <dl class="description-list">
          <dt>
            <p>Basic</p>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>These skills represent Basic combat actions, such as punching or kicking, grappling, the use of weapons and other primitive attacks.</p>
          </dd>
          <dt>
            <p>Combat</p>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>These are the skills for being in, around, or preparing for combat. For example, knowledge of the terrain, etiquette, being prepared to move quickly and with assurance.</p>
          </dd>
          <dt>
            <p>Defensive</p>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>These are the skills used for defending against an attack. They are the foil to the Basic skills.</p>
          </dd>
          <dt>
            <p>Modifier</p>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>A Modifier is a skill used to modify a Basic attack. A Modifier changes the behaviour of a skill; the skill is now considered a Special attack of the same name with the Modifier as the adjective, for instance, if the Martial Artist is modifying a Punch with a Bash, then this is now a Special attack, Bashing Punch. Since a modified Basic attack counts as a Special attack, it may not be further modified, as only Basic attacks can be modified. There are certain Combat skills which enable the Martial Artist to consider certain specific combinations of Modifier/Basic to be Basic attacks.</p>
          </dd>
        </dl>
        <div class="note">
          <p>A Modifier may not be used more than Lvl times per turn.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Candlestick modifies his punch</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Candlestick has three levels in Martial Arts; he has bought Punch at rank 3 and level 3, and chosen it as his bonus; he also has Bash at level 1 and Feint at level 1. He is striking at the Giant Hispaniola Solenodon with a Bashing Punch. Because he is using Bash with his Punch his punch is now considered &#x201C;special&#x201D; and may not be further modified, even though he could still use his Feint this turn.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="section">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Further Commentary</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body">
        <p>You will note that there is no &#x201C;chi&#x201D; or &#x201C;super-powers&#x201D; in Martial Arts. In fact, the skills are deliberately kept pedestrian&#x2014;those possessed (or assumed to be possessed, if possible) by the greatest &#x201C;non-mystical&#x201D; martial artists in the &#x201C;real world.&#x201D; This is done deliberately to provide a clear separation between the Supernormal&#x2014;governed by Magic and Traits&#x2014;and the mundane reality of kicking, spitting, biting, and hurting. If you want to create a character that has truly jaw-dropping magical abilities, like flying through the air, or punching through a fired-brick wall, bending steel, or leaping from roof-top-to-roof-top, consider looking into the Magic and Traits section. In Magic there a several categories that would benefit a Martial Artist tremendously.</p>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Basic</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <p>Basic skills may be used any number of times per turn, that is, if the character has three actions, then he may Punch or Kick three times, or do any other Basic skill any number of times, as long as he has enough actions.</p>
            <p>Some Basic skills have a variable number for the Rank of the skill. For instance, the Basic skill Punch/Kick has rank X. When purchasing this skill the martial artist must pick some value for X, such as 2. In this case the Punch/Kick skill is a rank 2 skill. For Punch/Kick this means that the punch does <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span></span> damage, and the kick does <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span></span>. However, if at a later date the martial artist wants to increase the rank of the skill, he may do so. This costs the differential amount.</p>
            <div class="example">
              <h1 class="title">
			Gammer increases the rank of his Punch
		      </h1>
              <p>Gammer has a Rank 3 Level 3 Punch/Kick. He's been able to hit targets just fine, but in this modern age they tend to wear a bit more armor! He's decided to increase the Rank of his Punch/Kick from 3 to 4. The cost of a Rank 3 Level 3 skill is 18 points. The cost of a Rank 4 Level 3 skill is 24 points. That means he must spend <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mn>24</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>18</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>6</mn></math> points to increase the Rank of his Punch/Kick.</p>
            </div>
            <p>An advanced (very much optional) version of this is to allow Point Pools. For instance, a character could have 22 points in his Punch/Kick Point Pool. When striking, the character determines either the level or the rank of the skill at that moment. For instance, during the first action, a character may want to be certain they can hit the opponent: with 22 points in her Point Pool she could set the Rank of her Punch/Kick to 1, and allow the Skill level to be 6. A Rank 1 Level 6 skill is 21 points which is less than or equal to her Point Pool. Alternately, if she's pinned or grappled the opponent such that the opponent is unable to defend with any capability, she may decide to have a Rank 6 Level 2 skill (which is 18 points, and thus less than 22 points), for the next action in this turn. However, the maximum level the martial artist may have, even with a point pool, is still capped by her level in Martial Arts</p>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Combat</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <p>While a Martial Artist could simply gain levels in the various raw skills, this does not scale well. Martial Artists should use the Jitsu, Kata, Kung Fu, and Waza skills to create new martial abilities. These skills modify and create new skills which allow the martial artist, for instance, to add multiple modifiers to a Basic attack or Defensive skill.</p>
            <p>To allow a Basic attack or Defensive skill to be modified multiple times, the Jitsu skill is used. For each level in Jitsu, the Martial Artist picks a special skill or Defensive skill; this skill is now considered a Basic skill. Note that transient skills, such as combining Bash with Punch do not count. However, if another skill is used to create a permanent combination as a special skill, then this can be targeted.</p>
            <p>To create a new (special) skill from a Basic and a Modifier, the Martial Artist must purchase the Kung Fu skill. The Kung Fu skill is a Rank 1 skill that combines two skills the Martial Artist already knows; note that the Kung Fu skill does not need to be purchased at a higher level than 1. The skill level of the Kung Fu is the lower level of the two skills combined. You can purchase Kung Fu multiple times for different combinations. Purchasing higher levels in some particular Kung Fu adds a skill level bonus when used. A Kung Fu is a special skill, so a Jitsu can be used to make the Kung Fu a Basic skill, which can be further modified. The number of actions is equal to the number of actions of the skill which has the most actions.</p>
            <p>Waza is essentially identical to Kung Fu, but combines two Basic attacks, rather than a Basic attack and a Modifier.</p>
            <p>Kata is similar to Kung Fu except that a third skill of any kind is also put into the combination, however, Kata is Rank 3 and not Rank 1. It also can be turned into a Basic skill by using Jitsu. Kata is the usual way that a Martial Artist can construct Martial Magic, by combining a Basic attack, a Modifier, and a spell into a single action. The number of actions for the Kata is equal to the number of actions of the skill which requires the most actions within the Kata.</p>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Defensive</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <p>Of all the Defensive skills, the family of Dodge skills are some of the most important. The skills Anticipated Dodge and Improved Anticipated Dodge are dependent upon the Dodge skill (or Anticipated Dodge skill, respectively). Dodging is an active skill and requires knowing about the attack which is occuring, and being able to effectively move out of the way. For instance, it is possible to Dodge being shot by a gun, if the martial artist can anticipate where the gun is aimed and when the trigger will be pulled. (In general, aiming a gun and pulling the trigger of a gun are sequential actions, so aiming ends before firing. Thus it is possible to dodge the aiming of the gun by moving rapidly at the right time. Dodging bullets is, generally, impossible.) On the other hand it is not possible to Dodge certain attacks. Fully automatic sprays without cover, area effect attacks and automatic targeting magic spells are simply impossible to dodge.</p>
            <p>The Anticipated and Improved Dodge skills add to the powers of the Martial Artist to Dodge. The Anticipated Dodge is exactly the same physical procedure as a normal Dodge, but the Martial Artist specifically focusses on a single attacker. The Martial Artist sacrifices actions during his turn, to gain the ability to (essentially) automatically Dodge attacks from a single target, multiple times. However, their are extenuating circumstances in which Anticipated Dodge fails. If the opponent moves into an area which is occluded to the Martial Artist, such as becoming invisible or walking behind a wall. A Martial Artists level in Anticipated Dodge can be higher than his level in Dodge.</p>
            <p>Improved Anticipated Dodge builds on Anticipated Dodge and essentially allows the Martial Artist to counter-attack a targe, only if the target attacks. The idea is that the Martial Artist is preparing a counter-attack that depends upon the actions of the target when the target attacks. As such, the counter-attack is timed and performed in such a method that not only does the Martial Artist defend against the attack, but counter-attacks in an essentially indefensible manner. Extenuating circumstances can change the way this occurs. If the target becomes (even momentarily) occluded, the dodging portion will almost certainly fail, and the counter-attack is no longer indefensible, although it can still occur.</p>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="section">
      <h1 class="title">
        <p>Categories</p>
      </h1>
      <div class="section-body">
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Basic</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Martial_Arts-Basic">
              <a class="hrid" href="Martial_Arts-Basic.xhtml">Martial_Arts-Basic</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Combat</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Martial_Arts-Combat">
              <a class="hrid" href="Martial_Arts-Combat.xhtml">Martial_Arts-Combat</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Defensive</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Martial_Arts-Defensive">
              <a class="hrid" href="Martial_Arts-Defensive.xhtml">Martial_Arts-Defensive</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Modifier</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Martial_Arts-Modifier">
              <a class="hrid" href="Martial_Arts-Modifier.xhtml">Martial_Arts-Modifier</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="section">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Special</p>
          </h1>
          <div class="section-body">
            <div class="reference" name="Martial_Arts-Special">
              <a class="hrid" href="Martial_Arts-Special.xhtml">Martial_Arts-Special</a>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
