<table class="category" name="Content/Martial Arts/Modifier">
  <thead name="titles" class="titles">
    <th width="None" class="Title">Name</th>
    <th width="None" class="None">MetaTag</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Type</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Rank</th>
    <th width="l" class="Table">Attribute</th>
    <th width="None" class="Description">Description</th>
    <th width="None" class="None">Implementation</th>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Aimed Shot</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You take extra time to carefully align your target in your sights before attacking with a ranged weapon. This skill only works with ranged weapons, such as a bow, crossbow, or rifle. You may take up to LVL consecutive actions to aim at your target. These actions must be spent doing nothing other than aiming. Each action spent aiming gives you +1 on your strike roll. You must be able to clearly see your target in order to aim. If you are interrupted during the aiming process then the bonus is lost and you must start over.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Bash</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You use brute force to overwhelm your opponent. Bash takes one action to prepare for. It must be used with a melee attack. Roll to strike as normal. Add 3*LVL AP to the attack.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Burst</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You fire a fully automatic weapon, such as a machine gun, at one specific target. When firing a burst, the attacker rolls his strike roll with a -3 penalty. The target may defend as normal. If the target does not defend successfully, then it is struck with a number of bullets equal to <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> [ LVL] OR the burst rating of the gun, whichever is lower. Damage is rolled separately for each bullet. Firing a burst takes two actions and uses BR number of bullets. However, a character may continue a burst from an immediately prior action, against the same target, for one action. When the character stops firing a fully automatic weapon he must spend one action to recover before a different target can be fired upon.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Called Shot</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Subtract LVL from a called shot negative. This cannot make the negative positive.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Deadly</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>4</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Wisdom</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You attempt to cause an especially lethal wound. You must have knowledge of the targets physiology (which may take a roll at the GMs discretion). This has no effect versus incorporal, amorphous, undead, etc. targets. It is likewise ineffective against exotic creatures. This can be used against cyborgs and robots, given that you make the applicable roll. Your attack deals <math><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac></math> damage, but it is now Undefined. If the target loses more than <math><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>4</mn></mfrac></math> of their Hitpoint total in a single strike, they must make a BLD check, or fall to 0 HP instantly.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Double Tap</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You are skilled at attacking the same target rapidly with a ranged weapon. Fire an additional LVL shots per action with a negative equal to total number of shots fired minus 1 (or zero, whichever is higher). Failing the double tap means all the ammunition is spent and no shots hit.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Drawing Cut</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You attack your target with a slashing weapon. You attempt to deal extra damage by pulling the weapon along the cut. Declare drawing cut before your attack, which must be made with a S type melee weapon. Roll to strike normally. If you deal damage to your opponent, then you automatically deal damage a second time (roll again). Your opponent does not get to defend against the second damage roll, though any armor he is wearing (or supernatural damage reduction) is counted as normal. If you miss your strike roll or if you fail to deal damage for whatever reason then this skill has no effect and you loose your next action.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Feint</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You attempt to trick your opponent into defending at the wrong time, thereby enabling you a better chance at striking. If the Feint roll fails, then you loose your next action, but this attack proceeds normally. If Feint succeeds, then roll to strike as normal. The defender must roll his defensive roll twice, and use the worse of the two rolls.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Hold</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>When a skill or modifer causes the character to automatically lose the grapple (or similar wording)), the character may roll hold if she desires to maintain the hold. In cases where this would modify a distance, distance is calculated as if normal, ignoring the fact that the target remains held. If the object or limb being grappled is removed, hold always fails.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Lunge</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>On a successful lunge you may move and attack in the same action, as long as the move is in a straight line and is unobstructed. If you fail your lunge, the next action is also used and you make your strike rolls at a negative equal to the number of feet moved.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Multi-Weapon Style</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Special, see description.</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Multi-Weapon Style has Rank 3*X, where X is the number of additional weapons the martial artist intends to use. The martial artist can now use more than one weapon&#8212;given that they are &#8220;in-hand&#8221;(or foot, tentacle etc.)&#8212;in a single action. Note that the additional attacks have the appropriate multi-weapon minus; which can be mitigated by using Ambidexterity.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Jesse &#8220;Capoeira&#8221;: Double-Kick &amp; Double-Punch</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Jesse wants to perform a Capoeira-style Double-Kick followed by a Double-Punch. He purchases Multi-Weapon Style for 3 additional weapons; the Rank of the Multi-Weapon Style is then 3*3=9 Since it's so expensive, he only purchases one level, so he can only use it once per turn. On top of this he has purchases 3 levels of Ambidexterity, offset all of his multi-use strikes by +3. This means when he attacks, in one action he can perform two kicks and two punches, if he does so his first punch is at -0 to strike, his second punch at -3, his first kick at -6, and his second kick at -9. He can do all of these strikes as if it were one action without. The strikes are considered separate, and pass-or-fail on their own.</p>
        </div>
        <p>Note that because Multi-Weapon Style is a Modifier, the attacks used during the Multi-Weapon style may not be further modified.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Multitarget</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You are skilled at making multiple attacks quickly. This enables you to fight multiple opponents simultaneously or strike the same opponent repeatedly in one action. Multitarget allows the martial artist to attack multiple targets in a single combat action. The martial artist may choose to target up to LVL+1 targets. These may be different opponents or they may be multiple attacks against the same opponent. Divide your to-strike dice among the selected targets and proceed normally. Damage is rolled separately and normally for each target. Your attacks must be the same, and they must be a standard melee attack. Your target(s) may attempt to defend against each attack seperatley. For example, if the martial artist has LVL 5 Punch and LVL 2 Multitarget then she may target up to three targets with multitarget using a total of 5 dice to strike. For example</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Pin</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>If the character successfully deals damage with a P (piercing) weapon, then the opponent must roll a BLD check with a negative equal to the number of successes the character rolled for her Pin skill. If the opponent fails, she is pinned to another surface with that weapon, given that the weapon did enough damage to penetrate that surface. Pin is only effective if the penetrating weapon remains embedded in the target and the pinning surface. For example, pin is effective with a spear, but not with a bullet even though they both deal P damage.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Point Blank Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Knowledge</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>For each level of Point Blank Combat, you may reduce the minimum range of your attacks by 5 feet.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Rain Of Blows</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Build</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Must be declared at the beginning of the turn. For each action during the declared turn, take LVL plus 1 actions instead. The character may only make unmodified attacks during this turn. For the next minute the character is at 1 action&#8211;turn and -3 to all skill rolls. This may only be used LVL&#8211;2 (round up) times per day.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Savage</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Savage allows you to maximize the damage dealt by an attack, for example</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Shield Binding</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Knowledge</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>When you make a successful attack with a Shield Binding attack, you deal no damage with that attack, but your opponent may not use an equipped shield to defend against any other attack during that action.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Skewer</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You stab your opponent with a P weapon, then continue to drive the weapon forward as far as possible. This functions the same as Drawing Cut, but for P weapons (Piercing).</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Slam</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>Slam describes various blows such as tackles, body blows, or butting&#8211;goring (beasts with horns). It deals the same damage as the standard HTH damage chart, but the next category up. It us usually C damage. If you attempt a Slam attack and miss, then you must spend 1 action to recover.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Spray</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You fire a fully automatic weapon, such as a machine gun, in the general area of your target. Your goal is to increase your chances of hitting the target at least once. You roll to strike as normal, but with a bonus of +LVL, plus the burst rating of the firearm being used. The target may defend as normal. If the attack is successful, then the target is struck with a number of bullets equal to one-third of the burst rating of the gun, rounded down. A spray attack takes two actions and uses BR number of bullets. However, a character may continue a spray from an immediately prior action, against the same target, for one action. When the character stops firing a fully automatic weapon he must spend one action to recover before a different target can be fired upon.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Stunning Blow</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Strength</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>The damage (after armor is subtracted) is halved. If they fail a WIL roll with a negative equal to the damage taken, they fall unconscious.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td title="yes">
        <p>Trickshot</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Modifier</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td table="yes">
        <p>Dexterity</p>
      </td>
      <td description="yes">
        <p>You make a ranged attack in such a way that you can strike your target in difficult situations. Trickshot is used with a ranged attack. For each level in trickshot, reduce the strike penalty for cover or moving target by 1. This ability cannot provide a bonus to strike, it can only reduce penalties that may be present. If your level of Trickshot is higher than your strike penalty, then the penalty is completely negated.</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No value</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
