<?xml version="1.0"?>
<table xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="category" name="Content/Monsters"><thead name="titles" class="titles"><th>Name</th><th>MetaTag</th><th>Special Abilities</th><th>Statistics</th><th>Attacks</th><th>Description</th></thead><thead name="display" class="display"><th>Title</th><th>None</th><th>None</th><th>None</th><th>None</th><th>Description</th></thead><thead name="format" class="format"><th/><th/><th/><th/><th/><th/></thead><tbody><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Allip</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Takes no damage from non-magical attacks. Immune to psionics.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR:<span class="notappl">n/a</span>DEX: 12 BLD: 10 INT: 11 WIS: 11 WIL: 11 CHA: 8 HP: 30 Actions: 3 P/S/C: none Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Touch of Madness: Permenantly drains 1 WIL from the target per hit. Requires Touch.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Properly speaking, an Allip is a special kind of Undead or Spirit. An Allip is born whenever a person is deeply wronged by some tragic act and is thereby driven to madness and suicide. The body dies while the person's soul continues to live as a ghostly being. An Allip has the attributes of whatever the human had before his suicide. They are truly insane and are driven by madness and the overwhelming desire for revenge. The only desire of an Allip is to avenge itself by tormenting the person or persons responsible for his suicide. When the person(s) responisible die, an Allip vanishes into nothing. Moving requires intense concentation, and therefore an Allip cannot move very quickly.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Babau</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Dodge while grappling (3 dice) Regenerate 15 HP/turn</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Vulnerable to fire (1.5x damage) 100 HP Size: 1 Actions: 3 plus 1 move Attack/Parry: 6-8 (+3 vs size-2 targets) Dodge: 5-8 (or 3-8 when grappling) Natural Armor: 5/5/5 Base Armor: 10</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Slap with limb: limb stetches into tentacle-like whip. Deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">15</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> and scores an automatic grapple Energy drain: Requires a grapple first. Deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">5</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> with automatic success.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Appearance: A babau is a constructed creature, similar to a golem. As such they vary in exact appearance. However, all babaus resemble some other creature from which they are made–most commonly an infant of any humanoid race–though they could be made from any living creature. A babau looks like the creature that it was made from, with the following features: they are always naked and carry no equipment or weapons, they are perfectly pitch black, and their body lacks much of the detail of the original creature–most delicate or "sharp" features are smoothed over. Babaus have no eyes or ears or toes–they have only the tinest of bumps where these features once were. Their fingers are small nubs, and their mouth is a tiny wrinkle. Habits: Babaus are constructs and as such, they do whatever their creator has "programmed" them do to. The programming of a Babau is set during their creation, and typically includes such activities as guarding a certain area or performing menial labor. Becasue the complexity of a babau's programming is directly related to the learning ability of the original creature, the most common babau is made from an infant or young child of an intelligent race (such as human). If a babau is made from an animal, it is only suitable for the most basic of menial tasks. Combat: Babaus can be effective combatants due to their impressive strength, resiliance, and unique attacks. However, their combat strategy is preprogrammed, and such they never deviate in their behavior. This behavior is set by their programming, and thus it varies depending on their programmer's wishes. Generally their attack strategy is to strike and grapple an opponent using their limb-tentacles. Once they have secured a grapple, they use their energy drain attack as often as possible. They typically are programmed to flee and regenerate if they are seriously wounded. If a Babau is hit by a slashing weapon that deals more than 5 damage, the babau splits into two halves. Each is the size of the original babau. One half sustains whatever damage was dealt by the blow. The other one has full HP. Example: Eric attacks a Babau with a short sword, and rolls 14 damage. After deducting the Babau's natural armor, the damage sustained is 9 S. Since this is more than 5 damage, the Babau splits in two. One half sustains that 9 damage. The other half is at full HP.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Basilisk</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Once per turn the basilisk can turn an opponent to stone with just a gaze. This power does not work if the target is COMPLETELY enclosed, no eyeslits in armor, NOTHING. The basilisk must have a line of sight with the target.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 13 DEX: 14 BLD: 13 INT: 3 WIS: 5 WIL: 10 CHA: 2 HP: 60 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 15/14/11 Size: 6', 10' from snout to tail Dice: Strike: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> ; Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span></span> ; Spines: anyone touching the spines will take <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">P</span></span> and be poisoned for <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> turns, taking <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> damage a turn.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A basilisk is a large lizard-like creature that is about ten feet long when fully grown. It has a stout, thick body and a short, heavy tail. It weighs about 400 pounds. The creature has six powerful legs and a large head with strong jaws. Basilisks eat just about anything, including stone. The basilisk is covered with armored scales that are colored similar to it's habitat. Woodland basilisks are green, scrubland basilisks are a dull brown, etc. The Basilisk's scales are slick with poison, and a Basilisk's gaze can turn a living target to stone, instantly. Basilisks are of high animal intellience (predator) and are totally fearless. A basilisk is unafraid of death, and cannot be awed or surprised. They are solitary animals and fairly rare. They have a long life span.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Bugbear</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Nightvision and exceptional hearing</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 16 DEX: 13 BLD: 20 INT: 10 WIS: 12 WIL: 13 CHA: 6 HP: 40 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 10/10/9 (4/4/4 natural) Size: 7' average Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 2; Block: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bte: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> ; Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> ; but will usually have an archaic weapon, prefers this type of attack</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Bugbears are humanoid creatures that are covered with coarse brown hair. They have dog-like ears and flattened noses, and otherwise appear human-like. They tend to be stronger and tougher than the average human (higher STR and BLD), but they are less intelligent (8 INT and WIS is common). They have a simple tribal society. They are capable of making tools and act much like primitive humans. They will often be found farming or hunting animals with simple weapons.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Cave Droll</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Dodge (stats above; is generally used as a last resport. Add +2 dice when jumping away to escape) Heat Sense (as a viper: can "see" warm-blooded targets even in complete darkness) Leap: 15 feet Ambidexterity: A Cave Droll, once latched in place, can attack with both knees and a bite in one action.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Beast 20 HP (Female) 28 HP (Male) Size: 1 Actions: 3 Attack: 4-13 (+2 vs. medium targets such as humans) Dodge: 2-16 Natural Armor: 4/6/2 (Male: 5/7/3) Base Armor: 0</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite (once per round only) Male: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">S</span></span>  &amp;  <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> from poison for <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">12</span><span class="bns"/></span> turns Female: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">S</span></span>  &amp;  <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> from poison for <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> turns Knee Attack (male only) May attack with both knees simulaneously in one action with no penalty <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">3</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> each Spit Poison (female only) up to 5 times per day, range of 15 feet. <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> for <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> turns</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Apperance: The Cave Droll is a small reptile with a bulbous, bean-shaped body. Its body is approximatley one foot long and is reminiscent of a fat, bloated, sack. It has two spindly forelimbs that have 3-fingered hands and opposeable thumbs. Its legs are narrow but are much more muscled than the forelimbs and have 3-toed feet. Both the fingers and toes feature sharp claws. The body is completely covered with scales; those on the back are keeled and are quite hard. Coloration is chiefly a dark olive green, with streaks of brown and other earth tones throughout. The sexes are different in appearance: Males have a bright orange or yellow patch on the throat area, directly below a large mouth lined with sharp teeth. The male's knees are capped with large horny spikes. Females lack the colored throat patch and the knee spikes. Their mouths are considerably smaller and have far smaller teeth. Habits: Cave Drolls are omnivorous predators. They lair in secluded areas, most commonly caves, but any dark location with shelter from the elements will do. Cave Drolls will eat any kind of animal or insect they can subdue and kill, and are also known to eat sweet fruits or berries when they can find them. Hunting tactics generally involve subduing prey with brute force. While Cave Drolls are not active man-hunters, they have been known to kill and eat humans that stray too near their lairs. Combat: The animalistic intelligence of Cave Drolls prevents them from utilizing strategy. They are not subtle combatants and have no concept of trickery or prioritizing targets. However, their hunting instincts are strong, and they are known to hide motionless while prey approaches, suddenly making an ambush attack to kill it. Individuals simply grab and devour small prey, such as rodents or lizards. Larger animals are swarmed and attacked en masse: Males attack prey by first jumping at it and latching on with their claws. Then, they repeatedly pummel it with repeated blows from their spiked knees, and deliver their poison bite. Females keep their distance from prey, surround it, and spit poison globs.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Cave Horror</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Low-light vision Spider Climb ability Leap: 30 feet</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Monster 160 HP Size: 3 Actions: 3 Attack: 4-15 Leg 3-15 Bite Parry: 4-15 Natural Armor: 15/10/5 body, 30/20/10 limbs Base Armor: 5</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">5</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> Leg Claws <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">3</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> Slam (after leaping) <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">10</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Apperance: The Cave Horror, also known as the "Great Eatler", resembles an enormous beetle. The body is approximatley four feet long, three feet wide, and two feet thick. It is covered in a hard, shiny, black carapace. Its head is the size of a basketball and has two large compound eyes and large, sickle-like manibles as prominent features. The creature has four legs, each of which is nearly twenty feet long fully extended, but are usually carried in a peaked arrangement with the feet close to the body. Each foot is tipped with two wicked claws. It's appear slender and delicate, but the chitonous covering is extremely hard. It's limbs have the strength of iron bars. Habits: Though it appears to be a gigantic insect, the Great Eatler is actually a hateful monster. It is cunning, patient, and greedy to the extreme. Cave Horrors build their lairs deep in caves or similar areas, keeping well hidden from likely disturbance. When the mood suits it–frequently–or when disturbed, the beast awakes and looks for potential prey. The Cave Horror uses its exceptional perception skills to track and locate its chosen target. It observes its target(s) for some time, before deciding when and how to attack. It often times strikes from the darkness or hiding (often on the celing), surging forth to attack the victim and then retreating to plan a future attack. Cave Horrors do not covet treasure specifically, but generally accumulate it due to their long lifespan and propensity to attack sentient prey. Combat: The Cave Horror is an intelligent combatant. It follows and observes targets before beginning combat with a suprise attack. It may make use of ambushes or tricks in order to gain the upper hand–or simply to confuse, distract, or block of its prey's escape route. When actually fighting the Cave Horror relies on its claw attacks and its bite.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Centaur</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Running speed: 30 mph</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 15 DEX: 15 BLD: 13 INT: 12 WIS: 11 WIL: 12 CHA: 10 HP: 30 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 3/3/3 (can also wear armor) Size: 8' tall, 7' long Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 3; Block: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Hooves: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span> ; can also use any human weapons</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A centaur is a cross between a human and a horse. They have the body of a horse, but a human torso extends where the horse's neck and head would normally be. They are an intellgent, proud race, whose mental attributes average a 12. They have 4 legs like a horse, and have two human-like arms. Centaurs are peaceful and enjoy intellectual and athletic pursuits.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Chimera</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>The dragon's head can breath fire once per turn instead of biting dealing <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> damage. Can fly at 30 mph and run at 20 mph</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 18 DEX: 14 BLD: 20 INT: 10 WIS: 12 WIL: 15 CHA: 6 HP: 130 Actions:: * P/S/C: 20/20/20 Size: 10' long with an 8' tail Dice: Strike: 5</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Can make a total of 3 bites, 1 claw attack, and 1 tail attack per turn. Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span></span> ; claw: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> ; tail: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A chimera is a powerful monster that appears as a mix between several different animals. The front half of it's body is that of a Lion, and the back half is that of a goat. It has three heads: a goat, lion, and a serpent. It has a tail with bony spikes along it's length. It has a pair of bat-like wings atop its back. Each head can function indipentantly of the others, but the Lion head controls the body. All three heads can attack independently.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Cockatrice</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Once per turn the cockatrice can turn an opponent to stone with just a gaze. This power does not work if the target is COMPLETELY enclosed, no eyeslits in armor, NOTHING. The cockatrice must have a line of sight with the target.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 4 DEX: 14 BLD: 6 INT: 3 WIS: 5 WIL: 10 CHA: 2 HP: 25 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 2/3/2 Size: Turkey sized Dice: Strike: 2</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">-</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> ; claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A cockatrice is a grotesque bird-like creature that is about the size of a turkey. It is covered with tough, warty skin and it also has scales on some parts of it's body. Cockatrices eat only stone, and are found in groups of 6-10. They aren't particularly intelligent and spend their time looking for food (things to turn to stone and then eat) and sleeping. Cockatrices, like the Basilisk, have the ability to turn a target to stone with just a gaze. The bite of a cockatrice can also turn a target to stone.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Deviruchi</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Dodge (stats above) Skewer Reciprocal Attack with pitchfork only (see martial arts) Regenerate 2 HP/turn</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Demon (vulnerable to white magic, immune to fire) 32 HP Size: 1 Actions: 4 Attack/Parry: 4-13 (+2 vs. medium targets such as humans) Dodge: 3-16 Natural Armor: 3/4/2 Base Armor: 2</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>"poke": Tiny Pitchfork of Heat: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">1</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> and <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> from heat (but does not have fire effect) "fire": Fire Fountain: Requires 3 actions to cast. This ritual requires at least 2 Deviruchi to participate in, which they do by simultaneously plunging their pitchforks into the ground. This causes an eruption of fire from the ground that affects a 10' diameter circle. Damage dealt is <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> Fire + <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> for each additional Deviruchi present beyond the first two. "zap": Black Ray: This attack works like the spell Black Beam, except it is less powerful (damage dealt is <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">12</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> and the damage received is <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> ). It can be "cast" only once per turn. "bite": Bite: Deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">1</span><span class="kind">P</span></span>. If wounded, the target suffers an additional <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> from poison. The poison damage takes place the next turn, and only once.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Apperance: A small daemon standing approximatley 18" in height. The body is round and plump, resembling a pillow. Coloration is almost entirely black; some specimens exhibit faint red spots or a red stripe along the back. Two tiny bat-wings grow from its back, but they are too small to be used for flight. Its arms are small, and usually carry an iron pitchfork approximatley 24" in length. They usually do not speak, but are known for chattering in an excited manner when fighting or tormenting the wounded. Habits: Deviruchi are among the lowliest of daemons. As such, they are not particularly intelligent, though they are intensely curious and of the same mental capacity as a child. As they are physically and intellectually weak, their masters rarely attempt to give them significant responsibilities; rather they are simply dispersed in the world, spreading havoc and furthering all manner of evil. Deviruchi may therefore be found in nearly any location or climate, so long as humans or innocent beasts are present to torment. Combat: Deviruchi are small, fast-moving, and have numerous offensive capabilites. They are fairly dangerous 1-on-1, but are especially dangerous in groups. When a group of Deviruchi is encountered, all individuals generally swarm and attack the same opponent. However, they are easily distracted and may quickly shift from one opponent to the next for seemingly no reason. They rarely fight with any sort of organized strategy, however all Deviruchi relish combat and enjoy inflicting pain and suffering on any living thing. They are unlikely to run from a fight, though they do scatter and regroup when overwhelmed.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Dirge Worm</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>poison resistance burrowing infravision tremorsense Paralyzing slime: touching slime or being constricted requires the victim to make a BLD check at -3. Failure drops the user to half STR. (pass= no effect)</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Takes half damage form poison. 500 HP Size: 2 (25' long, but diminished size due to narrow body) Actions: 3 plus 1 move Attack: 7-6 (bite or stinger) Dodge: 5-6 Natural Armor: 10/15/30 Base Armor: 15</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">10</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">10</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> Stinger <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> , 20 AP and poision for <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> turns: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span>  &amp;  <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> BLD Constrict (must bite first), 4x <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> Spell-like abilities: Darkness 1/turn Carpet of Adhesion or slipperyness at will Spider Climb 2/day Rock to Mud 2/day Create Portal 2/day Advanced Slow 2/day Negate 1/day Geo Transport 1/day</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Apperance: The dirge worm is a revolting and horrific monster which is constantly surrounded with the stench of decaying flesh. The creature's body resembles a bloated grub or worm, except it is twenty-five feet long and two feet in diameter. Its skin is a tough, transparent membrane which is coated in a yellowish slime. The skin is stretched tight around the creature's body, making it look like it might burst at any moment. The combination of the slime and the transparent skin makes a dirge worm appear to be a writhing tube of mutilated flesh–when in fact it is a living creature. A Dirge Worm's head resembles a grotesquely oversized human head. It has no hair and is covered with the same transparent skin and slime of the body. The forehead is extended, the mouth exaggerated, and it has tiny black eyes. The creature has no lips, and thus its mouth–full of jagged teeth–is clearly visible. Dirge worms move like a snake and are capable of extreme speed. Habits: Dirge worms live underground. They lair in caves, old dungeons, sewers, abandoned mineshafts, and similar locations–anywhere damp and dark with sufficient space to accomodate their size. Dirge worms eat dead, decaying flesh. To this end they attack large prey. They often lair near humanoid settlements, from which they raid livestock and people alike. They haul the dead back to their lair and leave the bodies to rot. Once the flesh is sufficienly putrid, the creature consumes it. Dirge worms are fond of eating minor undead, such as zombies, as they are "instant" sources of dead, decayed flesh. They are also attracted to graveyards, burial pits, or battlefields where they collect great quantities of corpses to feed their insatiable hunger. Dirge Worm slime is valued by Necromancers for use in fell ritals. Thus some powerful necromancers seek out dirge worms and even supply them with zombies and other hapless victims in order to have a source of slime readily available. Though they are powerful, Dirge Worms prefer not to fight directly. They use their abilities to hide and move in darkness to suprise and overwhelm prey. Combat: When "hunting" prey, the dirge worm waits for its target to pass close by. It then bursts forth from the ground or from a hiding spot in a nearby marshy area, to attack. Usually one bite is sufficent to kill a potential victim. If facing multiple targets it uses its spell-like abilities immedietly to gain an advantage early on, then fights with its teeth and stinger.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Doppleganger</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can completely imitate the physical characteristics of another creature. The doppleganger gets all physical attributes, HP, armor, and attacks. This can only be done after slaying the original creature.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 10 DEX: 8 BLD: 10 INT: 12 WIS: 13 WIL: 20 CHA: 8 HP: 20 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: none Immune to psionics Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 3; Dodge: 2</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Assumes any attacks of copied creature</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A doppleganger is an unusual creature with the ability to assume the appearance and abilities of other living creatures. The doppleganger's true form (which is very rarely seen) is a short (4') grey-skinned humanoid with large, slanting, eyes. In it's true form a doppleganger is quite weak and is similar to a human child in ability. The doppleganger can, however, transform its body (permanently) into the body of any other living creature of size 1, 2, or 3. When it does this, it gains the attributes and abilities of whatever creature it “copied”. Note that in order for this transformation to be possible, the doppleganger must first have slain the creature to be copied.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Dragon</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes">
      <p>A large winged reptile with a long neck and tail. Dragons have horned heads and a spiny ridge that runs along the back and down the tail. Dragons are very intelligent creatures and generally know a great deal of magic. They occur in various varieties and are generally rare creatures. The skin of a dragon, which is covered in fine armored scales, is very tough and is beautiful to look at. All dragons have some sort of breath weapon—commonly this is fire, but it could be ice, poison, acid, etc. Dragons can fly at great speed and have powerful bodies.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Dragon - Mature</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can fly 70 mph. Has a breath weapon (acid, poison, ice, lightning, or fire) that deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">8</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> damage. 1 "free" breath weapon attack can be made per turn.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 30 DEX: 22 BLD: 33 INT: 18 WIS: 20 WIL: 20 CHA: 16 HP: 1000 Actions:: 5 P/S/C: 40/40/40 Size: 50' from head to base of tail with a 30' tail Dice: Strike: 7; Dodge: 4; Block (with claws): 8</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">7</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">3</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> ; Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">9</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">3</span></span> ; Tail: <span class="roll"><span class="num">9</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span> ; Bat with wings: <span class="roll"><span class="num">6</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span> and blows target back 20 feet.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A large lizard creature. Usually knows a great deal of magic, typically will know every spell of rank 6 or less, with 1500 MP. A dragon becomes fully mature around 600 years after birth.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Dragon - Old</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can fly 60 mph. Has a breath weapon (acid, poison, ice, lightning, or fire) that deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">12</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> damage. 1 "free" breath weapon attack can be made per turn.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 28 DEX: 16 BLD: 30 INT: 24 WIS: 26 WIL: 22 CHA: 18 HP: 800 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: 30/30/30 Size: 60' from head to base of tail with a 40' tail Dice: Strike: 5; Dodge: 4; Block (with claws): 5</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">3</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> ; Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">6</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">3</span></span> ; Tail: <span class="roll"><span class="num">11</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span> ; Bat with wings: <span class="roll"><span class="num">6</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span> and blows target back 20 feet.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A large lizard creature. Usually knows a great deal of magic, typically will know every spell, with 4000 MP. A dragon becomes old around 3000 years after birth. Dragons have no known limited lifespan.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Dragon - Young</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can fly 40 mph. Has a breath weapon (acid, poison, ice, lightning, or fire) that deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> damage. 1 "free" breath weapon attack can be made per turn.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 24 DEX: 18 BLD: 23 INT: 14 WIS: 16 WIL: 20 CHA: 14 HP: 300 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: 20/20/20 Size: 20' from head to base of tail with a 10' tail Dice: Strike: 5; Dodge: 4; Block (with claws): 5</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">3</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> ; Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">3</span></span> ; Tail: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span> ; Bat with wings: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span> and blows target back 20 feet.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A large lizard creature. Usually knows a great deal of magic, typically will know every spell of rank 4 or less, with 600 MP</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Dragonette</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can fly 20 mph. Can breath fire or ice (choose one). Fire deals: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> ; ice deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> D. Can teleport once per turn up to 200' away.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 6 DEX: 14 BLD: 10 INT: 10 WIS: 12 WIL: 11 CHA: 18 HP: 20 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 4/4/4 Size: 3' from head to base of tail with a 2' tail Dice: Strike: 3; Dodge: 5</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> ; claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Trainable. Very personable creatures, and will often play with people, and will take food from them as well. They are very prized as pets, but they are free-willed. If a dranette is held against it's will, it will attempt to escape asap.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Dragonling</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can fly 30 mph. Can breath fire or ice (choose one). Fire deals: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> ; ice deals: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> D.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 16 DEX: 16 BLD: 18 INT: 14 WIS: 12 WIL: 15 CHA: 12 HP: 60 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 16/16/16 Size: Human sized with 4' tail Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 3; Block: 4; Parry: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">P</span></span> ; Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> ; Tail: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span></span> ; will usually use a one-handed weapon and prefers this method of attack.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Dragonlings aren't actually dragons, they just appear to be related. They are bipedal creatures with thick scales (usually golden) covering the body. It has a long tail with small spines along the spine. Will usually use human weaponry.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Dryad</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can run 30 mph. Can hide within its own tree. Beauty Lvl 4. Any creature that wishes to attack a dryad must make a wilpower check at -8 to do so.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 8 DEX: 14 BLD: 12 INT: 14 WIS: 14 WIL: 14 CHA: 12 HP: 24 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: none Size: Human sized Dice: Dodge: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>None</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>All dryads have a tree that is "theirs", never travels more than a mile from it. If the tree dies, the dryad dies, and vice versa. Dyads will occasionally help travelers by offering fruit and healing. They know all the Heal and Cure spells at level 1.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Electric Beast</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Elemental - Air</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Elemental - Earth</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Elemental - Fire</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Elemental - Water</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Embalmed Master</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Regenerate 15 HP/turn Preemptive Block 5/8 Anticipated Dodge 3 Multitarget 3 Fiendish Maneuver 4 Immune to acid, poision, and biological damage. Takes half damage from white sources due to the evil wards tattooed on the body</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Undead 400 HP Size: 2 Actions: 4 plus 3 move Attack 9/5 with chains 10/5 with melee weapons Parry: 10/5 with melee weapons Dodge: 6-5 Armor: 15/18/3 Infernal Chain, 20/20/20 natural, TOTAL: 35/38/23 Base Armor: 20</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Chain Whip: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">10</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> range of 15 feet, target has -5 to defend Fist: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">20</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> , and Disrupt Life on contact Wounding War Hammer +2: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">3</span><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">20</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> and wound deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">6</span></span> per turn. Wounds stack. Evil totem: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">10</span><span class="bns"/><span class="mul">2</span></span> near, <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">10</span><span class="bns"/><span class="mul">20</span></span> touching</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>The Embalmed Master was the greatest work of the necromancers Erasmus Diggle and Duncan Nusukan. This evil creature represented the best of their combined skills in embalming, undead animation, dark magic, and artificing. Duncan Nusukan chose the body of his enemy, King Asmodius, for this horrible creation. Apperance: The Embalmed Master at first glance appears to be a large man wearing armor. However, continued observation results in the viewer realizing the true nature of this horrid creation. Asmodius' body, stripped of its skin, has been chemically embalmed and infused with unholy magic, as an "embalmed zombie". The creature bears magical tattoos worked directly into the muscles, futher empowering it. The armor it wears is made of heavy chains, riveted into a suit of chain mail of gross proportions. Additional iron chains dangle from the armor and drag across the ground like a train of a noble's robe–a horrific mockery of Asmodius' former position in life. Habits: Like an Embalmed Zombie, the Embalmed Master is the undead servant of it's creator, Duncan Nusukan. His default "programming" is to act as Nusukan's bodyguard. He must obey Nusukan's every whim, and thus may be sent on special missions. Despite being under Nusukan's control, the Embalmed Master may "think" for himself, and is therefore far more skilled than a simple zombie. Combined with his immense strength, he is a powerful foe indeed. Combat: The Embalmed Master fights as an expert warrior would fight, as he retains his former combat experience. However, he is bound to obey any orders issued by Nusukan.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Featherfolk</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can fly 30 mph.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 12 DEX: 14 BLD: 12 INT: 14 WIS: 16 WIL: 12 CHA: 12 HP: 30 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: None, but may wear armor Size: Human sized with a 25' wing span Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 3; Block: 4; Parry: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Same as a human. Will often use melee weapons or long bows.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Featherlings are winged humanoid creatures that look similar to humans. They have long (1' long) pointed ears and slanted eyes. In place of hair they have large brightly-colored feathers. They are smart and cunning, equal to a human in every aspect.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Freysian Cave Hopper ( “Deadly Insect”)</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>darkvision jump 25 feet flight (at normal move speed, but clumsily) poison sting</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Beast 50 HP Size: 1 Actions: 3 Attack: 2-10 bite, 3-10 sting. (+3 vs. humans due to size) Move: 3 Natural Armor: 5/5/7 (chitin shell) Base Armor: 5</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="raw">5</span><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">S</span></span> (bite is not poisonous) Sting: <span class="roll"><span class="raw">5</span><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">P</span></span> 10 AP primary damage, plus poison Poison deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> instantly, plus <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> and <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> BLD for next <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> turns. The sting is intensley painful and the target is reduced to 1 action per turn unless he can make a WIL check (-3) each turn the poison is in effect. Anything requiring concentration (such as casting a magic spell or using many academic skills) requires a skill roll at a penalty of -3 due to the pain. Chirping: Sonic effect in a 90-degree cone. Targets within 10 feet are deafened for <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> minutes and loose <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">-</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> actions next turn. Targets out to 20' loose their next action only.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Apperance: This insect resembles an oversized leaf grasshopper, approximatley two feet long. It has six legs. The rearmost pair are enlarged for jumping while the other four legs are much smaller. Each leg ends in a clawed foot. The creature has a chitinous body colored a green or brown shade, often similar to that of its enviornment. Like a normal grasshopper, the Freysian Cave Hopper has wings and can fly (albeit in a clumsy fashion). Its inner wings are a bright scarlet red color; these are not visible unless the creature is actually flying. In a wooded area Freysian Cave Hoppers can be very difficult to see as they blend in with the foliage quite effectively. Habits: The creature is an omnivourous scavenger: its typical diet is mostly plant matter, but it will eat carrion as well as dead or decaying plants. It does not sleep, and spends most of its time searching for food and potential mates. Fresian Hoppers are not agressive and do not hunt live prey. However, they are fiercely territorial of their "nest" area. They are usually solitary, meeting others of their kind only to mate. Females defend their egg sacs but once the young hatch they are left to fend for themselves. Combat: Freysian Hoppers do not enter combat unless attacked or defending their nest or egg sac. When pressed into combat they attempt to frighten intruders by making a loud chirping sound (similar to that of a cricket, but loud enough to cause temporary deafness) and unfolding their red inner wings as a kind of threat display. Their bite is weak, though their powerful sting is intensely painful and is potent enough to kill a healthy adult if medical assistance is not available.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Gargoyle</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can fly 20 mph.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 16 DEX: 14 BLD: 16 INT: 10 WIS: 12 WIL: 11 CHA: 6 HP: 50 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 9/9/9. Base armor of 10 Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 2; Parry: 4; Block: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span>. Will usually use humanoid weapons and armor.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>argoyles are gray-skinned humanoid creature with wings protruding from the shoulders. They have human like attributes, but have double the HP. Gargoyles sleep by turning into a stone statue. They can fly up to 20 mph. Gargoyles have a tribal society.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Gargoyle - Mage</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can fly 20 mph.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 16 DEX: 12 BLD: 12 INT: 16 WIS: 18 WIL: 17 CHA: 6 HP: 30 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 9/9/9. Base armor of 10 Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 3; Parry: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span>. Will usually use humanoid weapons and armor.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Gargoyles are winged humanoids. Their skin has a stone-like appearance. All gargoyles can turn into a statue at will. Knows a good deal of magic. Magic Studies: 5; Magic Control: 5; and 450 MP</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Ghost</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Ghoul</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Only fire can deal damage to a ghoul</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 10 DEX: 12 BLD: 10 INT: 4 WIS: 8 WIL: 10 CHA: 2 HP: 30 Actions:: 2 P/S/C: none Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Touch: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span>. Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> , and poison for <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span>.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Ghouls are a variety of undead. They are stupid, relentless, creatures that exist only to eat the flesh of the dead. Ghouls prefer to eat the flesh of whatever species they were in life. They are very slow moving, but quite strong. Ghouls deal cold damage by physical contact and have a bite that is posionous to living creatures. Ghouls regenerate very quickly. They are extremely weak against fire.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Giant Slipper Snail</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Low-light vision Sense vibrations Immune to Poison Hide in Shell</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Beast 70 HP Size: 2 Actions: 3 Attack: 3-17 Tentacle; 1-10 bite Natural Armor: 5/15/10 shell (may vary depending on what is on the shell) Base Armor: 5</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Tentacle slap: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">2</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> Tentacle constrict: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">8</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> , only available on a previously slapped target Size 2 or smaller Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">S</span></span> Spray ahesive: As the spell Carpet of Adhesion (twice per day); may be sprayed outward or secreted on the floor directly. Posion Dart: (once per day) Range of 30 feet Deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> Poison deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">-</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> TR, <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> , and -1 action for <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> rounds</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Apperance: This strange creature appears to be a pile of rubbish at first glance. It is actually a type of pretatory snail. The snail's body resembles that of a giant slug, over five feet long and about two feet thick. Like a slug, its body is rubbery and has no bones, so it can squeeze into various shapes. It's shell is shaped like an upside-down shoe. The bottom side is halfway covered and is flat, lying close to the ground. The upper side of the shell is bean-shaped. The creature covers it's shell with various detritus that it collects from its enviornment, thereby camoflaugeing itself. It keeps its eyestalks well hidden inside the trash covering its shell. The creature's "face" features four eye stalks and four muscular prehensile tentacles that it uses to eat and manipulate objects. It's mouth features a beak similar to that of a squid, and a fleshy tubelike proboscis through which it can secrete its adhesive or fire its poison dart. Habits: The Giant Slipper Snail is a terrestrial ambush predator. It hides very effectively after having covered its shell with detritus from the area in which it hunts, making it blend into the background. It sits motionless for long periods of time (days if need be) waiting for potential prey to walk nearby. After detecting the approach of potential prey (from vibration in the ground) it attacks once the prey is close. The creature is extraordinarly stupid and kills only to eat meat. Once any prey has been devoured, it scatters the remains about, sometimes attaching parts of the victim to it's shell. Gaint Slipper Snails eat the entire body of their prey, including bones, hair, and teeth, which provide the minerals it needs to grow its shell. Combat: Giant Slipper Snails are not combative in general, however they are prone to attack nearly anything when hungry. A large prey target is attacked using its poison dart. The creature then waits for the poison to take effect before taking further action. Smaller prey animals (rodents, frogs, lizards, and the like) are simply grabbed and constricted using its tentacles. If the snail encounters a tough prey animal, it simply retreats inside it's armored shell and uses it's adhesive to stick itself to the floor, waiting for the threat to go away.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Gnoll</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>When in a pack, will have a +1 damage bonus</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 15 DEX: 14 BLD: 13 INT: 10 WIS: 12 WIL: 8 CHA: 8 HP: 36 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: Leather or light plate Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 3; Parry: 3; Block: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">P</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Gnolls are hyena-like beasts with human heads and faces. Some Gnolls have human-like arms and walk like apes. Most are much more hyena-like, however. They are cunning animals that enjoy the slaughter of weaker animals, or whatever they can successfully attack. They are easily scared and are fearful of flashy displays of power. They are gregarious and are generally found in groups of <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> individuals. They are scavengers and will eat whatever they can find.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Goblin</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>None</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 10 DEX: 8 BLD: 8 INT: 8 WIS: 8 WIL: 8 CHA: 8 HP: 16 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: Leather if anything Size: 3'-4' tall Dice: Strike: 2; Parry: 2; Dodge: 2</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Will usually use a short sword, small club, or dagger. May also have a shield.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Goblins are pathetic, hideous humanoid creatures with green, wart-covered, skin. They are cruel and delight in causing trouble and tormenting others. Most goblins are of low intelligence and are very superstitious. They have a tribal society lead by a cheftain or shaman, who generally knows some low level magic. Goblins use simple weapons and some might wear basic armor such as leather.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Griffon</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can fly at a speed of 50 mph. Has excellent vision, as well as the ability to see in complete darkness. Will kill harpies on sight (has a +2 damage bonus against harpies)</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 16 DEX: 13 BLD: 18 INT: 5 WIS: 8 WIL: 10 CHA: 10 HP: 50 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 4/4/4 Size: Lion sized Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Beak: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> ; Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Griffons have the body and hindquarters of a lion and the head and neck of an eagle. They have feathered wings and are agile fliers. They are proud and majestic creatures that care for their young defiantly.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Gurgoyle</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can leap 100 feet</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 20 DEX: 15 BLD: 20 INT: 10 WIS: 12 WIL: 11 CHA: 6 HP: 80 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: 16/16/16. Base armor of 15 Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 2; Parry: 4; Block: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span>. Will usually use humanoid weapons and armor.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Gurgoyle is a cousin of the Gargoyle. Gurgoyles are stronger and tougher, but less intelligent. They are far more common than gargoyles. Generally, gurgoyles are found with their more intelligent bretheren, who subjugate them as soldiers. Though stupid, they are formidible fighters. Like gargoyles, they transform into stone statues during sleep.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Harpy</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can fly at 30 mph. Harpies have a terrible stench that follows them wherever they go. All non-harpies are at -2 actions when within 25' of the harpy.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 14 DEX: 15 BLD: 13 INT: 10 WIS: 12 WIL: 10 CHA: 4 HP: 34 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: None Size: 6' tall with a 30' wingspan Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span></span> and will poison when damage is done. The poison will do <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> damage a turn for <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span></span> turns.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Harpies are hideous nude humanoids that live in a bee-like society. The majority are female. Harpies have a horrible stench that surrounds them and their colony. They have bat-like wings and clawed hands and feet. They have a tendency to form colonies on cliff sides facing the ocean.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Hellcat</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Anyone who touches or attacks a hellcat is immediately struck by fire dealing <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span>. If the bite deals damage, then fire poison races through the target dealing <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> D a turn until death (an ice spell or cure can stop this)</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 14 DEX: 14 BLD: 18 INT: 14 WIS: 13 WIL: 16 CHA: 10 HP: 40 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: 5/5/5 Size: Lion sized Dice: Strike: 5; Dodge: 5</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> ; Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A lion-like creature, the Hellcat's body is covered with a mane of blazing fire. They are voracious predators and will eat anything they can catch and kill. Hellcats are immune to non-magical damage, except ice or water based attacks. Anything touching a Hellcat suffers a fire based attack, which also poisons them.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Hobgoblin</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>None</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 15 DEX: 14 BLD: 12 INT: 12 WIS: 10 WIL: 10 CHA: 8 HP: 30 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: Any normal armor Size: 4'-5' tall Dice: Strike: 3; Parry: 3; Dodge: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Will use any melee weapon or crossbow</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>obgoblins are larger, smarter versions of goblins. They are generally 4-5 feet tall and have human-like skin and hair. They understand tactics, and are not easy to scare like goblins are. Goblins will usually rely on the smarts of a hobgoblin if possible. Hobgoblins are either solitary or members of small family groups ( <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> individuals). They tend to be hateful of other races and creatures, except goblins. They have a complex polytheistic religion. Hobgoblins use human like weapons and armor, but never the more advanced varieties. Though hobgoblins are capable of understanding concepts such as deceit, trickery, etc. they prefer to use brute force to overwhelm their opponents.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Hydra</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Each head can act independently of the others, consequently, each head gets one "free" attack a turn. This can be a bite, or to breath fire ( <span class="roll"><span class="num">6</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> ). The 3 attacks listed are for tail and claw attacks.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 30 DEX: 22 BLD: 33 INT: 10 WIS: 12 WIL: 10 CHA: 6 HP: 500 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 16/16/16; Base armor of 15 Size: 50' from head to base of tail with a 30' tail Dice: Strike: 5; Dodge: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">5</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> ; Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">6</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> ; Tail: <span class="roll"><span class="num">7</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>ydras are massive beasts that enjoy destruction, plundering, and the hoarding of valuables. They have multiple heads (anywhere from three to nine) on long necks and a stout barrel-like body with a long scaly tail. They have thick, stubby legs that look vaguely like those of a frog or toad. Hydras are amphibious but are poor swimmers. They will often live in or near shallow bodies of water. They favor swampy areas. Each head can act indipendantly of the others.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Ifrit</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Immune to fire of any kind. Normal fire will HEAL an Ifrit instead of damaging it. Merely touching an Ifrit deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> fire damage.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 35 DEX: 13 BLD: 25 INT: 8 WIS: 12 WIL: 16 CHA: 8 HP: 200 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 4/8/10 Size: 14' tall; 10' tall when hunched over Dice: Strike: 4 Dodge: 2</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Punch, kick. Bite deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span>. Flaming dash attack takes whole turn, deals 4x <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> fire</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A rare, solitary, beast that looks something like a gorilla. It is covered in gold-colored shaggy hair which burns with fierce flames. Walks bipedally but uses hands to steady itself. It is thought to be an ancient variety of fire elemental.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Imp (any)</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>-2 to strike any imp Natural armor 3/3/3, 6/6/6, 9/9/9 Raise a dead imp: 1 action (Darkling only) Summon <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> red imps or 1 black imp: 1action (Darkling only)</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes">
      <p>Imps are the most common (and weakest) variety of demon. They occur in three different varieties. Imps speak Demon and also have their own language consisting of chittering, high-pitched barks, chirps, and yelps. They are very fast moving and are totally fearless. Imps delight in causing suffering and tormenting anything living. Imps are of marginal intelligence and especially hate humans and other “smarter” races. Imps live in clans consisting of 5x <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> red imps, 2x <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> black imps, and <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> Darklings.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Imp (black)</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>-2 to strike an imp (Fast moving)</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 10 DEX: 12 BLD: 7 INT: 12 WIS: 9 WIL: 9 CHA: 6 HP: 30 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 6/6/6 Size: 2' high Dice: Strike 3, block: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> ; Bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">3</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Black imps are stronger versions of their red brethren. They use hit-and-run tactics, as well as simple ambushes, traps, etc. Occur in groups of 3X <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> , usually lead by some other from of demon or possibly a Darkling.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Imp (darkling)</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>-2 to strike an imp (Fast moving) Can raise red or black imps for 1 action each. Can summon <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> red imps or 1 black imp at will for 2 actions.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 12 DEX: 14 BLD: 8 INT: 13 WIS: 10 WIL: 10 CHA: 7 HP: 50 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: 9/9/9 Size: 2' high Dice: Strike: 4 Dodge: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> ; Bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">3</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Darklings are the most powerful type of imp. They oversee the weaker imps, and direct their evil deeds. Ususally solitary, in groups of <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> , or sometimes commanding groups of lesser imps.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Imp (red)</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>-2 to strike an imp (Fast moving)</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 9 DEX: 10 BLD: 6 INT: 10 WIS: 9 WIL: 8 CHA: 6 HP: 20 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 3/3/3 Size: 2' high Dice: Strike: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">S</span></span> ; Bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Imps are among the weakest demons. Small, fast moving, reletless and fearless. They delight in causing suffering. Ususally occur in groups of 5X <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> , lead by a higher type of imp or a greater imp.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Iron Maiden</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Knorath (minor fire demon)</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can raise minor and normal zombies/skeleton for one action each.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 18 DEX: 16 BLD: 16 INT: 14 WIS: 13 WIL: 13 CHA: 12 HP: 250 Actions:: 5 P/S/C: 12/14/13 Size: 8' tall humanoid Dice: Strike: 5; Block: 5; Dodge: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Morning star <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> ; Kick <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">4</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> ; Breathe Fire <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A minor demon–red-skinned, muscular humanoid. Knows magic: Fire1..3; Black 1,2; Time 1,2; Flame Shroud, Counter 1,2,3; Bio 1,2; Quake 1,2. 700 MP. Has infravision, can see invisible. Immune to posion &amp; sleep. Regenerates <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> HP per turn</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Kobold</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Kobolds can leap up to 15 feet.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 10 DEX: 15 BLD: 10 INT: 8 WIS: 8 WIL: 8 CHA: 8 HP: 24 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: Leather if anything Size: 3'-4' tall Dice: Strike: 3; Parry: 3; Dodge: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Will usually use a short spear or short bow.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Kobolds travel in packs of <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span>. They are sadistic creatures that enjoy the eating of intelligent creatures. They are not cowardly like goblins, so are much more dangerous.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Kraken</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Each tentacle can make 2 "free" slaps or constricions per turn. The other actions are for moving. Immune to water and ice/cold attacks. A kraken's eye is susceptable to damage.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 30 DEX: 15 BLD: 40 INT: 5 WIS: 5 WIL: 10 CHA: 4 HP: 4000 Actions:: 2 P/S/C: 10/10/20 Size: Main body is 80' long, with 100' tentacles Dice: Strike: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Tentacle slap &amp; grab <span class="roll"><span class="num">10</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span>. Tentacle Constriction: <span class="roll"><span class="num">6</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">C</span></span> , doubles each consecutive action. Full body constriction: ( <span class="roll"><span class="num">8</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> )x4 C as above</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Krakens are gargantuan creatures of the deep oceans. Rarely seen, but when they are, they instill panic and will often attack nearby sailing vessels thinking they are their favorite prey (whales). Not a vicious animal naturally.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Kuan-Ya</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Minor Teleport (3/day) Snort Smoke (As spell Create Smoke, 1/turn) Breathe Fire (As spell Ashen Cloud) 1/day immune to poisons and life-affecting spells elemental resistance Charge Flies Spirit (immune to non-magical weapons) A Kuan Ya that sees it's reflection in a mirror looses half it's HP. (only works once per day) Striking a Kuan-Ya with a mirror deals damage directly to HP equal to twice its normal fire damge ( <span class="roll"><span class="num">6</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> )</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Immune to fire and poison. Take 1/4 damage from other elemental sources, except water which deals 1/2 damage instead. 200 HP Size: 2 (15' long, but diminished size due to narrow body) Actions: 3 plus 3 moves Attack: 6-6 (bite) Dodge: none Natural Armor: 0/0/0 Base Armor: 5</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">10</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> and <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> Fire Tail Whip <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">3</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> and <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> Fire Charge-bite deals double the normal S damage; fire damage is unchanged.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Apperance: The Kuan-Ya is an agressive beast whose body is made entirely of fire. It's head resembles that of a dragon or some great lizard or serpent. It glows bright orange and red, and appears to made of flames compressed together in an invisible shell, showing detail including teeth, eyes, and ridges on the forehead. The center of its eyes are two white-hot glowing spots. The remainder of its body is long and serpentine, and is far less detailed. The end of it's tail is nothing other than wild flame. The beast is about fifteen feet long and the body is two feet in diameter at the head, tapering down to the end of the tail. Habits: Kuan-Ya are tempramental, agressive, and mean. Fortunately, their temper is also mercurial and while they are easily provoked, they are also likely to forget about past acts of agression if a new threat presents itself. Kuan-Ya are spirit beings, and therefore they do not need to eat. They are not particularly intelligent. Combat: Kuan-Ya are fearless and charge forward in battle. They use no subterfuge and attack the most convenient opponent directly, biting with their red-hot mouth.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Maw larva</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Excellent climbers. They have a strong grip when holding onto something. Can jump up to 6', but slow and ungainly on the ground.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 10 DEX: 10 BLD: 4 INT: 6 WIS: 6 WIL: 10 CHA: 4 HP: 10 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 1/3/0 Size: 8-10" long Dice: Strike: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">-</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> ; Bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A rat-sized pink creature with soft, wrinkly skin and four small limbs each of which end in a 3-clawed hand. It has a massive head and mouth–the size of a man's fist–with prominent teeth. They eat anything they can catch.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Metal Babble</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>(standard) Regenerate 10 HP/turn Babble: Affects all within 15' radius who can hear it. Deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> and <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> WIL (huge) Regenerate 20 HP/turn Babble: Affects all within 20' radius who can hear it. Deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> , <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> WIL, and -1 action next turn. Immune to weapons of +3 quality or lesser.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>(standard) Vulerable to electricity (1.5x damage) 150 HP Size: 2 Actions: 3 plus 2 moves Attack/Parry: 6-8 with pseudopod, 5-8 with blade cyclone Natural Armor: 70/50/35 Base Armor: 1 (huge) Vulerable to electricity (1.5x damage) 400 HP Size: 2 Actions: 3 plus 2 moves Attack/Parry: 7-8 with pseudopod, 6-8 with blade cyclone Natural Armor: 80/60/45 Base Armor: 1</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>(standard) Spike Pseudopod: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">5</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> , 30 AP Blade Cyclone <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">15</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> , affects all surrounding squares. (huge) Spike Pseudopod: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">15</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> , 30 AP, or half damage at a 10' range. Blade Cyclone <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">25</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> , affects all surrounding squares.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Appearance: The metal babble is a strange creature whose body looks like an amorphous blob of silvery liquid metal. The creature has a "mound shaped" body about four feet in diameter and two feet thick in the center. Its body is constantly moving and squirming like some sort of huge metal amoeba. The creature makes a noise not ulike a simmering stew as the metal that makes up its body flows about and bubbles. Metal babbles move about like a slug, but they are capable of moving quite rapidly. Habits: Metal Babbles are of very low intelligence. They like dark areas such as old cellars, caves, and underground crypts. They slide about the floor, searching for material to eat. Metal Babbles are capable of eating nearly anything, including stone, dirt, and organic matter. They care little for the taste of meat, though they will eat it in preferance to stone. The Metal Babble's favorite food is metal objects, including coins, weapons, tools and the like. Metal Babbles eat by engulfing their food like an amoeba. Combat: Metal Babbles do not hunt live prey, and they do not persue hostilities of their own accord. However, if disturbed they attack ferociously. Metal Babbles attack by forming their body into living weapons. Their most common attack is to form a spear-like blade and thrust it towards a target. When surrounded by multiple threats, they can form their body into a huge mass of spinning blades, threatening everyone around them. Finally, the creature is able to spew forth a sonic attack of mind-numbing gibberish. All creatures who are within range (and who can hear) are affected by this ability.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Minotaur</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Charge: Takes up all actions for the turn, and has a 5D+14 for successes (because it is so fast) and will deal <span class="roll"><span class="num">6</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> </p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 23 DEX: 14 BLD: 24 INT: 10 WIS: 10 WIL: 12 CHA: 8 HP: 60 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 9/9/9 Size: 7'-8' humanoid Dice: Strike: 3; Parry: 3; Block: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">8</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> ; Horns: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">8</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> ; Hooves: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">8</span><span class="kind">C</span></span>. Some may use a blunt weapon and maybe a shield.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Minotaurs are massive humanoid creatures covered with corse hair. It has the head and legs of a bull. They are typically passive unless attacked.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Mummy</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Undead. Immune to poison, cold, and electricity attacks. Healing spells cast on a mummy will do 1/2 "healed" damage direct to HP.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 20 DEX: 10 BLD: 12 INT: 4 WIS: 4 WIL: 6 CHA: 4 HP: 40 Actions:: 2 P/S/C: 4/4/4 Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Punch: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Stupid, mindless creature brought back to life. A decaying corpse wrapped in cloth that stinks to high-heaven. Will attack any non-undead on sight.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Necrolisk</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>low-light vision Heat sense</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Beast 400 HP Size: 3 Actions: 3 Attack: 4-10 Bite 4-12 Tail slap 4-12 Grab with small arms 3-11 Claws Move: 4 Natural Armor: 12/16/8 Base Armor: 9</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="raw">5</span><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> Tail Slap: <span class="roll"><span class="raw">10</span><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">S</span></span> Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="raw">5</span><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">S</span></span> Impale on Spike: <span class="roll"><span class="raw">5</span><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">P</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Apperance: This foul beast resembles a gigantic ignuana. It's body is fifteen feet long, with a tail of similar length. It stands on four heavily muscled legs, ending in sharp claws. The creature's back is bristling with slender, bony spikes that are the size of two-handed swords. An additional four slender arms protrude from the creature's midsection: two on each side. These arms are long and slender and end in clawed hands. Habits: The Necrolisk is a powerful carnivore–it spends its time hunting in order to feed its ravenous appetite. Its only other pastime is sleeping off past meals. Any creature encountered by a Necrolisk is either ignored (in the case of tiny vermin) or categorized as food or as a potential threat–in both cases, it is attacked and eaten. The necrolisk is fond of impaling dead prey on its back spikes to store it for later as it relishes the taste of partially-decayed meat. Combat: The Necrolisk is an unsubtle combatant. It charges foes and attacks them with claws, bite, its tail slap. Incapacitated targets are impaled on its back spikes. It us unlikley to back down from a fight unless it is obvious loosing or if it's opponents are particularly flashy and/or larger than it is.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Net-lath (minor earth demon)</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can raise minor and normal zombies/skeleton for one action each, can summon zombies at will for 1,2,3 actions respectivley</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 12 DEX: 16 BLD: 14 INT: 15 WIS: 15 WIL: 16 CHA: 10 HP: 400 Actions:: 5 P/S/C: 16/16/16 Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 3; Dodge: 5;</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Death touch <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> ; Poisionous breath weapon <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> area affect</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A minor demon–Guant, grey-skinned humanoid. Knows magic: Fire1..3; Black 1,2,3; Time 1,2; Counter 1,2,3; Bio 1,2; Quake 1,2,3; Geo Transport, Heal 1,2,3. 1200 MP. Can see invisible. Immune to posion &amp; sleep. Regenerates <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> HP per turn</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Nightmare</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can carry a rider who weighs no more than 1 ton (and is small enough). All melee attacks have fire effect. Cannot be hurt my non-magical attacks. Walks on air. Speed: 50 mph. Immune to fire</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 18 DEX: 13 BLD: 18 INT: 10 WIS: 12 WIL: 14 CHA: 10 HP: 200 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 16/16/16; 10 base armor Size: Large War-Horse Sized Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 5</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> ; Front Kick: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> ; Back Kick: <span class="roll"><span class="num">5</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> ; Fire Breath: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> Fire</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Trainable - Ebony black horses with manes and hoves of fire. Solitary creatures, tend to be cruel to other creatures out of spite. A trained nightmare will have the same disposition of its trainer, and will not listen to anyone besides the trainer.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Ogre</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>None</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 24 DEX: 12 BLD: 22 INT: 8 WIS: 6 WIL: 10 CHA: 4 HP: 100 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 9/9/9 Natural; Will often wear leather Size: 10' tall, 6' wide Dice: Strike: 4; Parry: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">9</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> ; Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">9</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> ; Often will use a very large blunt weapon</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Dumb humanoid creatures with brownish yellow skin. Band together like goblins, and attack in large numbers ( <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> ). Afraid of magic users (must make a WIL check or flee), otherwise, they are not fearfull of anything.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Quickening Demon</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Rabbat</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Flies Doom, as the spell except timer is <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">-</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> instead, and affects up to 4 targets at once. Only 1/day Fireball, <span class="roll"><span class="num">10</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> 30' radius Fire effect Magma Dart, <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> Explosive + Fire Energy Shield <span class="roll"><span class="raw">3</span><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> turns, 1/2 damage incoming only.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Immune to fire and cold 200 HP Size: 2 Actions: 3 plus 2 moves Attack/Parry: 4-11 (bite) Dodge: none Natural Armor: 10/15/5 Base Armor: 7</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="rOff">+</span><span class="raw">10</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Apperance: The Rabbat is frightening beast to behold. It consists of a bulbous central body which is dominated by a single giant eyeball and a huge mouth filled with vicious looking teeth–leaving no doubt that this beast is a meat eater. Two bat-like wings extend from the central body. It has no other limbs. Habits: Rabbats are aggressive meat eaters. In the wild, they persue and attack anything they think they can kill, which is most creatures. Rabbats are only afraid of very large, powerful, beasts such as Dragons. They may be found in nearly any enviornment, but they tend to lair in caves. Rabbats are much more powerful than they are intelligent, and thus they are sometimes subjugated by powerful wizards for use as minions. Combat: Rabbats are unsubtle and make no use of trickery or deciet. They do, however, know the tactical advantage of staying away from a fight and utilize their ranged spell-like abilities, closing in to bite only when they are clearly winning the fight. They are unlikely to flee except in the most exceptional of circumstances.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Shadow Walker</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Skeleton-greater mage</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>can touch and drain <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> HP</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 9 DEX: 10 BLD: 10 INT: 16 WIS: 13 WIL: 13 CHA: 8 HP: 50 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: varies, typ: 8/8/8 Size: Human Sized Dice: Strike: 3; Dodge: 2</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Punch <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> , Cold blast <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> D</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Skeletal mage appears as an animated human skeleton, has clothing and carries a staff or wand-like object. Likes to wear crowns and jewlery. Has 350 MP, knows spells: Fire 1,2,3; Cold 1; Bio 1,2; Quake 1,2; Magic Missile.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Skeleton-greater warrior</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>can touch and drain <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> HP</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 15 DEX: 14 BLD: 12 INT: 12 WIS: 9 WIL: 9 CHA: 8 HP: 70 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: varies, typ: 8/8/8 Size: Human Sized Dice: Strike: 5; Parry: 5; Dodge:3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Attacks with archaic weapon (varies)</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Animated skeleton, typically has some archaic armor. Wields an archaic weapon in combat, favoring large swords, axes, or blunt weapons like flails/ball-and-chain.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Skeleton-mage</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>none</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 8 DEX: 9 BLD: 8 INT: 14 WIS: 11 WIL: 11 CHA: 8 HP: 40 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: varies, typ: 4/4/4 Size: Human Sized Dice: Strike:3, Dodge: 2</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Punch <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> , Cold blast <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> D</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Skeletal mage appears as an animated human skeleton, often has some clothing and carries a staff or wand-like object. Has 250 MP, knows spells: Fire 1,2; Cold 1; Bio 1.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Skeleton-minor</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>none</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 8 DEX: 8 BLD: 8 INT: 8 WIS: 8 WIL: 8 CHA: 8 HP: 25 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: none Size: Human Sized Dice: Strike: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Punch <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Appears as an animated, somewhat damaged humanoid skeleton.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Skeleton-warrior</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>none</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 13 DEX: 12 BLD: 10 INT: 10 WIS: 8 WIL: 8 CHA: 8 HP: 50 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: varies, typ: 4/4/4 Size: Human Sized Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 2</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Attacks with archaic weapon (varies)</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Animated skeleton, typically has some poor quality archaic armor (chain, hard leather, etc.). Wields an archaic weapon in combat, usually a sword, knife, or blunt</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Snakeman - Greater - Harn Dal'aar</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can spit acidic venom once per turn. Deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> if it strikes bare skin.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 18 DEX: 16 BLD: 14 INT: 12 WIS: 12 WIL: 12 CHA: 10 HP: 170 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: 10/12/11 base: 5 Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 5; Dodge: 3; Parry: 5; Block: 5;</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Oversized Long sword <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> ; Sheild Bash <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> ; Throw Fire <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> ; bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> + <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> posion</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A demonic warrior created from a human sacrifice and a venomous snake in a magical ritual. Wields a serrated long sword in one hand. Appears much like a human, with scaly skin and a forked tongue. Their skin has a distinct greenish hue.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Snakeman - Greater - Ku'toxx</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can spit acidic venom once per turn. Deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> if it strikes bare skin.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 19 DEX: 16 BLD: 18 INT: 14 WIS: 12 WIL: 13 CHA: 11 HP: 220 Actions:: 5 P/S/C: 14/16/12 base: 5 Size: Human Sized Dice: Strike: 5; Dodge: 3; Parry: 5; Block: 5;</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Oversized Long sword <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> (+6 raw); Sheild Bash <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> ; Throw Fire <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> ; bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> + <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> posion</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A demonic warrior created from a human sacrifice and a venomous snake in a magical ritual. Wields a serrated long sword in one hand. Appears much like a human, with scaly skin and a forked tongue. Their skin has a distinct gray hue. Has no body hair.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Snakeman - Gukn</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Can spit acidic venom once per turn. Deals <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> if it strikes bare skin.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 16 DEX: 15 BLD: 12 INT: 10 WIS: 10 WIL: 10 CHA: 8 HP: 100 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 8/10/8 base: 4 Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 2; Parry: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Oversized Long sword <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">S</span></span> ; Throw fire <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> ; bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">P</span></span> + <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> posion</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A demonic warrior created from a human sacrifice and a venomous snake in a magical ritual. Wields a serrated long sword in one hand. Appears much like a human, with a somewhat scaly skin pattern and a forked tongue.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Stygian Fly</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Has only one attack–biting. If bitten, the target will suffer <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span><span class="kind">S</span></span>. If flesh is contacted, target suffers tremendous pain. Wound will grow, consuming target's body, at a rate of <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> D per SECOND.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 2 DEX: 16 BLD: 1 INT: 1 WIS: 1 WIL: 10 CHA: 1 HP: 10 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 3/3/3 -9 to strike due to size and movement. Size: about 3" long Dice: Strike: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite–see special.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A horrible demonic insect from the depths of the underworld. Stupid, lives only to feast upon the flesh and souls of the living. Even if the wound is cured, the wounded portion of the SOUL remains lost.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Stygian Mofish</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Cannot be harmed by nonmagical weapons. Immune to cold and fire.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 14 DEX: 10 BLD: 12 INT: 6 WIS: 14 WIL: 14 CHA: 5 HP: 100 Actions:: P/S/C: young: 3/3/3; average 6/6/6; old: 9/9/10 Size: young: 2'; average: 5'; old: 8' long Dice: Strike: 3 Dodge: 2</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">S</span></span> (-1 die for young, +1 for old)</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Demonic creatures that inhabit the waters of the underworld. Very fast swimmers. Will attack anything living that approaches their territory.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Stygian Toad</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Wounds caused by an attack from a Stygian Toad cannot heal by normal means. They can be healed by magic at 1/10th normal rates.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 12 DEX: 12 BLD: 6 INT: 6 WIS: 10 WIL: 10 CHA: 4 HP: 60 Actions:: 2 P/S/C: 8/14/8 Size: About 2' long Dice: Strike: 6</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">C</span></span> ; Tongue spear: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">P</span></span> , range of 6'</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A large, wart-covered toad that lives in bogs, marshes, and stagnant water. Lies in wait for it's prey, and then strikes. Camo: level 5. Likes to wound target and then wait for it to die, returning to eat the entire body of the victim.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Tevish-Tzat</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Regenerates <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> HP on each of it's turns.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 24 DEX: 14 BLD: 22 INT: 8 WIS: 8 WIL: 12 CHA: 6 HP: 300 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: 12/12/6 Size: 14' tall Dice: Strike: 4; Block: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Claws: <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/></span> ; Bite: <span class="roll"><span class="num">4</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">P</span></span>. Any contact poisons target for <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> per turn for <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> turns.</p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A tall, lanky demon with rotten yellow skin. Hunched over, with long spindly arms. Will persue (and attempt to eat) weaker opponents first. Ususally solitary.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Titan</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes"><p/></td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Troll</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Trolls regenerate <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> HP on each of their turns. They suffer half damage from poisons.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 10 DEX: 8 BLD: 12 INT: 8 WIS: 8 WIL: 8 CHA: 6 HP: 24 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: none or light armor Size: Human sized Dice: Varies. They use human skills and weapons.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes">
      <p>Trolls are an ancient race, usually despised by the higher races (men, elves, dwarves). They are primitive and considered savage and dirty. Trolls speak their own native tongue</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Troll, Rock</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Rock Trolls regenerate <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> HP on each of their turns. They have a natural Camo skill of 3 and natural armor of 4/4/4.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 16 DEX: 12 BLD: 20 INT: 8 WIS: 10 WIL: 12 CHA: 7 HP: 50 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: Heavy human armor Size: 8' tall humanoid Dice: Varies. They use human skills and weapons; favor axes, hammers.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td description="yes">
      <p>Rock Trolls are a distant offshoot of the Troll race. Rock Trolls are much larger. They are a proud, honorable, warrior race that defend their territory fiercely. They rarely venture out of their lands so they are not frequently encountered.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Wolf, Dire</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>Howl: takes 1 action. Summons <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> wolves loyal to the Dire Wolf.</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 18 DEX: 16 BLD: 18 INT: 4 WIS: 4 WIL: 12 CHA: 5 HP: 200 Actions:: 4 P/S/C: 3/6/0 Size: 6' long, 4' high Dice: Strike: 3 Dodge: 4</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Bite <span class="roll"><span class="num">3</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">S</span></span> ; Claws <span class="roll"><span class="num">2</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">S</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>A huge, supernatural version of a normal wolf. They are sometimes solitary but ususally found with a pack of normal wolves which they lead.</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Zombie</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>If struck in melee, 30%chance to deal <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> damage to attacker</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 13 DEX: 10 BLD: 16 INT: 9 WIS: 9 WIL: 10 CHA: 6 HP: 50 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 8/8/8 base 5 Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Punch <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> + <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Undead, rotting corpse. Suffers double damage from fire based attacks. Regenerates <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> HP per turn</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Zombie - Greater</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>If struck in melee, 30%chance to deal <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> D damage to attacker</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 14 DEX: 12 BLD: 18 INT: 9 WIS: 10 WIL: 12 CHA: 6 HP: 70 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 9/9/9 base 6 Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 4; Dodge: 2</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Punch <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">2</span></span> + <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span><span class="kind">U</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Undead, rotting corpse. Regenerates <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">6</span><span class="bOff">+</span><span class="bns">1</span></span> HP per turn</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr><tr><td title="yes">
      <p>Zombie - Minor</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td><td>
      <p>If struck in melee, 30%chance to deal <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> damage to attacker</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>STR: 12 DEX: 8 BLD: 14 INT: 8 WIS: 8 WIL: 8 CHA: 6 HP: 35 Actions:: 3 P/S/C: 6/6/6; base 4 Size: Human sized Dice: Strike: 3</p>
    </td><td>
      <p>Punch <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/></span> + <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">4</span><span class="bns"/><span class="kind">U</span></span> </p>
    </td><td description="yes">
      <p>Undead, rotting corpse. Suffers double damage from fire based attacks. Regenerates <span class="roll"><span class="num">1</span><span class="face">2</span><span class="bns"/></span> HP per turn (no rollover!)</p>
    </td><td><p>No value</p></td></tr></tbody></table>
