<?xml version="1.0"?>
<div class="part">
	<h1 class="title">
		<p>Amanuensis Magicka</p>
	</h1>
	<div class="section-body">
		<div class="chapter">
			<h1 class="title">
				<p>Introduction</p>
			</h1>
			<div class="section-body">
				<p>From the mundane to the majestic, the items of power: magical wands, spell-books, and weapons have held people in awe for centuries, if not millenia. Their importance cannot be overweighed. Magical items provide common goals, inspire jealousy and envy, and set the tone and character of any setting. This book will present many unusual (and usual) magical items.</p>
				<p>While the traditional spheres of magic have been simplified for Apathy, we will consider the full (European Medieval) taxonomy of magics, here. Below we show the main (classical) divisions and how they are implemented within the game. Note that the majority of the classical magical scholias (sing. scholion) are variations of divination or conjuration.</p>
				<div class="section">
					<h1 class="title">
						<p>Gnostomancy</p>
					</h1>
					<div class="section-body">
						<p>The various scholia within Gnostomancy are mainly concerned with divinatory powers. However, they are also linked with the control, invocation and evocation of local (or major) gods, spirits, animous, and elementals associated with each school. The gnostomantic scholia are capable of gross kinetic magics through the use of the controlled, invo- or evo- cated beings.</p>
						<dl>
							<dt><p>Nigromancy</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>Also referred to as Necromancy or Black Magic. This scholion concerns itself with the summoning, conjuration, divination, control, harnessing, and construction of talismans, rings, amulets, and grimoires of the dead, angels, and demons. In particular Nigromancy has the following scholion within it.</p>
								<dl>
									<dt><p>Goeity</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>The invocation (pleading) or evocation (control) of angels or demons.</p>
									</dd>
								</dl>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Geomancy</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>Divinition from tossing, throwing, manipulating, or drawing in dirt, sand, or rock, at random or while in a trance. Includes the control of small-rodents, and the ability to summon, and manipulate the actions of rodents. Geomancy also includes the ability to summon and conjure spirits (animous) of the earth, albeit weak and small forms, thereof.</p>
								<dl>
									<dt><p>Ley Lines</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>The ability to determine the location of Ley Lines, to find intersections of Ley Line powers. The ability to draw power from Ley Lines, in particular the points of intersection of Ley Lines. The ability to influence Ley Lines. The abilities to summon creatures, travel along (instantaneously), along the ports of a Ley Line.</p>
									</dd>
									<dt><p>Sacred Geometry</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>The enumeration and architectural concerns of the placements of geomantic objects, i.e., stones, megaliths etc. The carving of geometric figures for the control of local spirits, gods, and animous. The ability to determine the magical properties of the local geography and the best way to situate and use magic within a known terrain.</p>
									</dd>
									<dt><p>Geomantic Figures</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>The knowledge of specific runes, their configuration, and their manufacture for divinatory and evocatory reasons with respect to geomantic entities.</p>
									</dd>
									<dt><p>Dowsing</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>The use of tools such as scepters, rods, canes, forks, and plumbs to determine the local magical properties. Most specifically used in searching, and physical divinatory purposes. Dowsing is used as a bridge between Geomancy and the other gnostic and magickal capabilities. That is, any combination of the other scholia and Geomancy occurs through the use and discovery of objects and minerals via Dowsing with specific properties that engage those other scholia.</p>
									</dd>
								</dl>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Hydromancy</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The art of divination, transmutation, and control of the elemental property of liquids, water and life. Hydromancy includes the invocation of the animous of rivers, ponds, lakes, and wells (but not oceans or seas).</p>
								<dl>
									<dt><p>Lecanomancy</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>The divination of events via the patterns of ripples in water. In particular, the control of such events by modifying the ripples. Normally also used with singing-water-bowls in order to prevent catastrophes or influence future events.</p>
									</dd>
									<dt><p>Castronomancy</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>The divination of events from the reflections of objects in water, mirrors, and crystalline objects. This is classical srying and is used most often with events occuring at the present or near past. Can also be used to determine events of the recent and less-than-recent past, or very inaccurately the future. Also the ability to transmute and augment the beauty and physical features of a creature. In very limited cases, the transportation of objects and things, or the communication to distant places.</p>
									</dd>
									<dt><p>Baptism and Trial</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>The sanctification, erasure, excommunication, destruction, and booning of objects by immersion or sprinkling with water or oil. Also, a method of gaining powers (permanently) by the passage of a Trial Of Swimming (actually, breath-holding and trance). The creation of blessed oils and waters with exotic and charming powers. The creation of places of safety, zones of invulnerability, and extradimensional areas.</p>
									</dd>
								</dl>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Aeromancy</p></dt>
							<dd>
								<p>The divination and control of the aetheric element. Aeromancy is concerned with the invocation of the Gods of Wind. Of necessity, aeromancy requires devotion to a particular God, and specialization within the scholion, as the practise of magicks other than Aeromancy will bring immediate retribuation (of appropriate) form from whatever God was being invoked.</p>
								<p>The five Gods of Wind are (in no particular order):</p>
								<ul>
									<li><p>Tinia, a God of Lightning and Fear</p></li>
									<li><p>Adad, the God of Thunder, Lightning, and Aeromantic divination</p></li>
									<li><p>Amon, God of Wind, Fertility, Life, and Secrets</p></li>
									<li><p>Aditi, Goddess of Sky</p></li>
									<li><p>Agni, God Sun, Light, and Sky-Fire (of any kind)</p></li>
								</ul>
								<dl>
									<dt><p>Austromancy</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>Divination from the wind. The control of the wind (locally), in both intensity and direction. It is divided into two main categories:</p>
										<dl>
											<dt><p>Anemoscopy</p></dt>
											<dd><p>The direct control of the aetheric force, and creatures of pure intensity, fear, hatred, and anger.</p></dd>
											<dt><p>Nephomancy</p></dt>
											<dd><p>A bridging scholion between Aeromantic and other forces, particularly Hydromancy. Mainly focused on obscuration, obfuscation, confusion, indirection, shadows, drowning, and torture.</p></dd>
										</dl>
									</dd>
									<dt><p>Ceraunoscopy</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>The control of sound, thunderous events, lightning and elektrois (phlogisticular ameris conjurations). The creation and display of aetherically-based phlogisticular events. This differs from pyromancy which is the phlogisticular reduction, sublimation, and destruction of materials.</p>
									</dd>
									<dt><p>Chaomancy and Cometomancy</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>Diviniations through signs in the sky, especially comets. The control of colors, and illusions produced with light, and the control of emotions, especially wonder and awe.</p>
									</dd>
									<dt><p>Meteoromancy</p></dt>
									<dd>
										<p>Divination through the sighting of shooting stars and falling meteors. The construction of amulets, tokens, staves, rods, weapons, and other objects from the detritus of falling stars, meteors, and meteoric dusts and stones.</p>
									</dd>
								</dl>
							</dd>
							<dt><p>Pyromancy</p></dt>
							<dd>	
								<p>The study of divination and evocation of phlogistonic forces. Especially the prediction of the future, in particular to calamity, catastrophe, and the gain of wealth. The ability to detect earthen gems, and metals.</p>
								<dl>
									<dt><p>Alomancy</p></dt>
									<dd><p>Literally divination by salt. Also, the use and study of magical eplosives and methods of releasing the phlogiston from non-aetheric substances.</p></dd>
									<dt><p>Botanomancy</p></dt>
									<dd><p>The burning of plants, especially, the uses of burnt plants for the control and demons, angels, and importantly, lesser spirits and animous.</p></dd>
									<dt><p>Capnomancy</p></dt>
									<dd><p>Divination by smoke. Also, the ability to cloud scrying, to defend against control via distance means and the resistance against the theft of the soul. Capnomancy is also strongly allied with suffocation, and inspiration.</p></dd>
									<dt><p>Causinomancy</p></dt>
									<dd><p>The ability to find the weak spots and central weaknesses of flammable materials and, to a lesser extent, materials and objects in general.</p></dd>
									<dt><p>Daphnomancy (Empyromancy)</p></dt>
									<dd><p>Magically related ability to lead and leadership. The divination and selection of leaders, and the magical ability to confer leadership abilities.</p></dd>
									<dt><p>Osteomancy and Scapulimancy</p></dt>
									<dd><p>Magical ability to destroy the undead, the walking dead, the reanimated, and the reincarnated. Also divination by burning, breaking, scoring, etching, or crushing bones. The advancement of years upon an artifact.</p></dd>
									<dt><p>Plastromancy</p></dt>
									<dd><p>Divination from the observation of repties. The magical ability to control reptiles with the mind. The ability to absorb the powers and capabilities of reptiles. Communication with the reptilian and draconic order. The ability to defend from draconic breath weapons.</p></dd>
									<dt><p>Sideromancy</p></dt>
									<dd><p>Divination through the burning of straw. The magical control of life and death according to seasons. This is a deitic scholion which requires the implicit concern of any agricultural god.</p></dd>
								</dl>
							</dd>
						</dl>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="section">
					<h1 class="title">
						<p>Gnostokinetics (Psychokinesis)</p>
					</h1>
					<div class="section-body">
						<p></p>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
