<?xml version="1.0"?>
<div class="part">
	<h1 class="title">
		<p>Scrolls, Wands, Rods, Staves, and other Accoutrements of Magicians, Wizards, Sorcerers, Gnostics, and Mancers of all Types</p>
	</h1>
	<div class="section-body">
		<div class="chapter">
			<h1 class="title">
				<p>Wands</p>
			</h1>
			<div class="section-body">
				<p>A Wand is a length material, easy to hold, and for a human-sized creature, from 6 to 24 inches in length, in general. Wands are typically fabricated from wood, but metals are also common. Other materials, or composite wands are far lesser known.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="chapter">
			<h1 class="title">
				<p>Rods</p>
			</h1>
			<div class="section-body">
				<p>Rods are similar to wands, but almost always made of metals, especially precious metals, and commonly jewel encrusted. The main difference between a Wand and a Rod, is that a Rod is (ostensibly) also a bludgeoning weapon. For instance, many maces are actually also considered Rods. In general, Rods will be more powerful than wands. Because of their unusual heft, cost, difficulty of manufacter, and increased power, Rods are far more rare than either Wands or Staves.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="chapter">
			<h1 class="title">
				<p>Staves</p>
			</h1>
			<div class="section-body">
				<p>A Stave (or staff) is typically 5 to 8 feet in length. They are made from almost any material, but most commonly are carved wood. Most staves are about 1 inch in diameter, but some can be as much as 2 or more inches thick. Staves typically differ from Wands and Rods, in that rather than being a singly-crafted item of specific use or capability, a Stave is continually modified and transformed. The result is that some Staves gain legendary powers as they are wielded and improved upon through the generations of magicians that control them.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="chapter">
			<h1 class="title">
				<p>Vestments</p>
			</h1>
			<div class="section-body">
				<p>Magical vestments, while usually ignored in modern popular culture, are actually some of the most important magical items a magician can own. Most magical vestements are religious in nature; they are used for both organized and gnostic rituals. Most vestments server multiple purposes, that is, they may have once been the major items of a central religion, but then became owned by an occult group. Vestments also gain power over the generations as they are imbued with the belief of the wearers, and become saturated with the aura of the magic users who wear them non-stop.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="chapter">
			<h1 class="title">
				<p>Scrolls and Books</p>
			</h1>
			<div class="section-body">
				<p>The most common of all the magical accoutrements are Scrolls and Books. Most of these actually do not work. That is not to say that their spells are complete hogwash, but most are subtly altered or slightly encrypted such that the spells within them do not work unless some knowledge of how to interpret the Scroll or Book is known. Scrolls typically provide a single spell, or a family of very tightly related spells, or a way of casting a certain type of spell. Books typically contain the life-learning of the author of the book, and can, at times be a mixture of spells, knowledge gained, autobiography, biographical account of adventures, and other information.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
