<?xml version="1.0"?>
<root class="wrapper">
  <h1 class="chapter">
    <p>Augmentations</p>
  </h1>
  <h1 class="section">
    <p>Additions</p>
  </h1>
  <p>There are two basic types of addition augmentations. The first are small devices that don&#x2019;t take up a lot of room. These are easy to add to the body because they don&#x2019;t require any power or a lot of space. As a general rule, this type of augmentation is very small and its function is often limited.</p>
  <p>The second type are larger, complex systems, which take up a lot of space in the body. Generally, the only way to add something like this to your body is to remove, move, replace, or otherwise modify some other part of your body in order to accommodate it. This works on a system of slots (see below) which is similar to the Mecha system.</p>
  <h1 class="section">
    <p>Replacements</p>
  </h1>
  <p>Augmentation replacements, in their most basic forms, are exactly the same function-wise as normal body parts. Of course, many augmentation parts are upgrades of some sort. They might be stronger, faster, or more durable than normal. Some augmentation replacements have new functions or different abilities than normal.</p>
  <h1 class="section">
    <p>Augmentation Limbs and Bodies</p>
  </h1>
  <p>Entire limbs or even entire bodies may be replaced with augmented versions. There are two basic types of replacement limbs and bodies: Robotic or Cybernetic.</p>
  <p>Robotic limbs are built entirely from non-organic materials. They are machines made of steel, high-tensile alloys, wires and high pressure hoses. Movement comes from hydraulics, electric motors, gears and levers. Robotic body parts contain no flesh or blood.</p>
  <p>Cybernetic limbs are basically organic. They consist of bone, tendons, and muscles just like &#x201C;natural&#x201D; limbs. However, cybernetic limbs are enhanced with technology including electric implants, genetically modified tissues, and some synthetic material reinforcements.</p>
  <p>These rules apply to cybernetic and robotic components:</p>
  <h1 class="subsection">
    <p>Robotics</p>
  </h1>
  <ul class="itemized-list">
    <li>
      <p>Do not bleed when injured (though they might leak oil or make sparks)</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Have unnatural heat signatures</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Do not look or feel realistic in the slightest; rather they look like machinery.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Take double damage from electrical sources.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Are immune to disease, poison, and magical effects that work on living targets (a robotic body part is not alive). Note that this means that healing magic or typical healing/medical items have no effect on robotics.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Have double the HP of non-robotic parts.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Robotic limbs cannot be upgraded directly. They can, however, be easily removed and replaced with upgraded parts.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Used robotic parts generally have high resale value and demand. Used parts are regularly available. Many robotic parts are interchangeable.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Robotic parts are considered fairly easy to replace and repair. Some parts can be swapped in a matter of minutes.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Robotic parts do not heal automatically. If damaged, repairs must be made by a mechanic or by replacing the damaged parts with new ones.</p>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h1 class="subsection">
    <p>Cybernetics</p>
  </h1>
  <ul class="itemized-list">
    <li>
      <p>Bleed when injured</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Appear normal when viewed casually, or on thermal sensors. Many cybernetic limbs will appear 100normal even under close visual inspection. However, inspection by a knowledgeable person (Doctor, Nurse, Cyber Doctor, etc.) will reveal the true nature of the limb.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Usually feels realistic to the touch, but not necessarily.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Are fully susceptible to disease, poison, and life-affecting magic just like any other living tissue (cybernetic body parts are living tissue)</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Cybernetic parts can be upgraded at a later date without total replacement. However, this usually requires surgery.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Cybernetic parts are usually built around the users body. Used cybernetic parts are valuable, but the potential market is limited to those people who are very similar to the original owner. Therefore the used cybernetic parts market tends to be flooded with supply for which it is difficult to find a buyer. It is often time consuming to find a donor or source for a particular part. Cybernetics parts prices for both buyers and sellers will vary wildly depending on market conditions, which are nearly impossible to predict.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Repair to cybernetic limbs is a combination of electro-mechanical work and traditional medicine. Repairing significant injuries or adding/removing cybernetics often entails surgery, a hospital stay, and may well require lengthy recovery time.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Minor injuries to cybernetic limbs heal just like injuries to a normal human. Magical healing and regeneration works for cybernetics in most cases, though healing may be incomplete if the damage is severe.</p>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h1 class="section">
    <p>General Augmentation Rules</p>
  </h1>
  <ul class="itemized-list">
    <li>
      <p>All humanoid characters have, by default, (size) free slots in the body. These are assumed to be located in the torso. (Humans, which are size 2, start with +2 slots) If you want more slots to store things in, you have to purchase augmentations that give you back additional slots.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>After all augmentations are chosen for a character, add up the slot total. This number must be positive. (In other words, augmentations cannot be installed unless there are slots available to house those parts)</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>A robotic limb may be attached to any kind of torso. However, a cybernetic limb can only be attached to a natural (non-robotic) torso. This is because all cybernetic limbs depend on the support organs and blood supply found in the torso.</p>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h1 class="section">
    <p>Determining the Cost of an Augmentation body part</p>
  </h1>
  <div class="note">
    <p>This section is incomplete.</p>
  </div>
  <h1 class="section">
    <p>Arm, Hand</p>
  </h1>
  <div class="reference" name="Augmentations/Arm__Hand">
    <a class="hrid" href="Augmentations/Arm__Hand.xhtml">Augmentations/Arm__Hand</a>
  </div>
  <h1 class="section">
    <p>Body</p>
  </h1>
  <div class="reference" name="Augmentations/Body">
    <a class="hrid" href="Augmentations/Body.xhtml">Augmentations/Body</a>
  </div>
  <h1 class="section">
    <p>Head</p>
  </h1>
  <div class="reference" name="Augmentations/Head">
    <a class="hrid" href="Augmentations/Head.xhtml">Augmentations/Head</a>
  </div>
  <h1 class="section">
    <p>Leg</p>
  </h1>
  <div class="reference" name="Augmentations/Leg">
    <a class="hrid" href="Augmentations/Leg.xhtml">Augmentations/Leg</a>
  </div>
  <h1 class="section">
    <p>Torso</p>
  </h1>
  <div class="reference" name="Augmentations/Torso">
    <a class="hrid" href="Augmentations/Torso.xhtml">Augmentations/Torso</a>
  </div>
</root>
