<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<table class="category" name="Combat" category="Martial Arts">
  <thead class="titles" name="titles">
    <th class="Title" width="l">Name</th>
    <th class="None" width="l">Category</th>
    <th class="Table" minitable="yes" width="l">Rank</th>
    <th class="Table" minitable="yes" width="l">Actions</th>
    <th class="Table" width="l">Multiple</th>
    <th class="Table" minitable="yes" width="l">Attribute</th>
    <th class="Table" minitable="yes" width="l">Type</th>
    <th class="Description" width="l">Description</th>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><p>Blind Fighting</p></td><td><p>Combat</p></td><td><p>2</p></td><td><p>None</p></td><td><p>No</p></td><td><p>PER</p></td><td><p>Offensive</p></td>
			<td><p>
			 The ability to fight in darkness. For each level in Blind Fighting the Martial Artist gains +1 to strike, up to nullifying the effect of darkness. For example, if there is a -6 to fight in the darkness, and the Martial Artist has Level 4 Blind Fighting, then he has -2 to fight.
			</p><p>You have experience fighting when your vision is compromised or obscured due to injury, darkness, smoke, or other impediments to your vision. Each level in Blind Fighting reduces the negative to fighting blind by 2; it may not be used to add a positive bonus. Blind Fighting is only effective for ranges less than 5*LVL feet. Blind Fighting does not mitigate strike penalties for cover.
		  </p></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><p>Burden</p></td><td><p>Combat</p></td><td><p>1</p></td><td><p>None</p></td><td><p>No</p></td><td><p>STR</p></td><td><p>Defensive</p></td>
			<td><p>Your are experienced at fighting while carrying large amounts of weight or encumbering loads, especially armor. Theis skills ads 3*LVL to the Encumbrance sub-attribute.</p></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><p>Great Weapon</p></td><td><p>Combat</p></td><td><p>1</p></td><td><p>None</p></td><td><p>No</p></td><td><p>STR</p></td><td><p>Offensive</p></td>
			<td><p>You are especialy skilled at handling very large weapons. You are ssumed to have +1 STR per LVL for the purposes of the weapon use only. This effects your Minimum Strength Requirement and your Raw Damage bonus.</p></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><p>Quick Load</p></td><td><p>Combat</p></td><td><p>2</p></td><td><p>None</p></td><td><p>No</p></td><td><p>DEX</p></td><td><p>Offensive</p></td>
			<td><p>The ability to reload a gun, bow, or crossbow as quikcly as possible. On a successful skill roll, the character can replace a magazine, use a speed loader in a revolver, draw aand nock and arrow, or pump a shotgun without using an action. For bows, this will reduce the recover time by 1 action per level automatically. Failure implies that th enormal time was required (and must be spent) even if this is an action in the next turn.</p></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><p>Weapon Burden</p></td><td><p>Combat</p></td><td><p>5</p></td><td><p>None</p></td><td><p>No</p></td><td><p>STR</p></td><td><p>Offensive</p></td>
			<td><p>Reduce the recovery time for a weapon by 1 per Level.</p></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><p>Readiness</p></td><td><p>Combat</p></td><td><p>2</p></td><td><p>None</p></td><td><p>No</p></td><td><p>PER</p></td><td><p>Defensive</p></td>
			<td><p>Add 2*LVL to all quick- skills and 2*LVL to your initiative.</p></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><p>Taunt</p></td><td><p>Combat</p></td><td><p>Varies.</p></td><td><p>None</p></td><td><p>No</p></td><td><p>CHA</p></td><td><p>Offensive</p></td>
			<td><p>Requires at least one action, but may be combined with another action, as long as that second action does not require your voice. Communicate with the opponent in such a way as to deliberately anger them. The opponent must make a WIL save with a negative equal to your LVL in taunt, or must target you instead.</p></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><p>Combat Etiquette</p></td><td><p>Combat</p></td><td><p>1</p></td><td><p>None</p></td><td><p>No</p></td><td><p>CHA</p></td><td><p>Offensive</p></td>
			<td><p>
        The skill of how to engage in &#x201C;gentlemanly,&#x201D; &#x201C;honorable&#x201D; or &#x201C;face-saving&#x201D; combat (duels, sport-combat, etc.). This includes battle-field code-of-conduct, rituals, battle-cries, cheers, negotation, the art of surrender etc. In any situation in which negotation must occur during the duress of combat, the Combat Etiquette skill must be checked first. Without this skill it is impossible in most cases to attempt to negotiate with the opposing party.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Bratzefv negotiates peace</p>
          </h1>
          <p>In the dark Bratzefv, bumped into some strangers and they began to fight, his gut-instinect tells him that this was just an accident and he wants to call out to his opponents that they should stop and talk. He rolls his Combat Etiquette and has two successes; his opponents are not particularly eager to fight, and decide to stop and talk.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Viterexia honorably slays her opponent</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Viterexia has just defeated the Warrior Mother of the Umex Clan in a single combat at the center of a stadium filled with 20,000 Umescis. Upon rolling Trivia and Combat Etiquette she realizes that she should cut off her opponents head, or the Warrior Mother will be forever disgraced and the Umescis will descend upon her and rip her to pieces. With a flourish and a cry she swings her Grand Sabre down and holds up the grisly prize.</p>
        </div>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><p>Combat Terrain</p></td><td><p>Combat</p></td><td><p>1</p></td><td><p>None</p></td><td><p>No</p></td><td><p>INT</p></td><td><p>Offensive</p></td>
			<td><p>
				Understanding of combat terrain, troop movement, weather and combat condition impact on the terrain. Adds 3 to your Leadership rolls per level. Upon entering combat a character may spend actions to become familiar with the local terrain. Familiarity means that the character takes no minuses from slick, unlevel or otherwise difficult-to-traverse terrain, given that he has an appropriate skill knowledge (like acrobatics or Climb). This skill is rolled with a minus equal to the &#x201C;difficulty&#x201D; of the terrain and a bonus of LVL*Actions-spent-studying. If the character is familiar with the local terrain then if he has to dodge by &#x201C;throwing himself to the ground&#x201D; he gets an additional die. The character is also acutely aware in changes in the environment and gets a bonus to his Perception equal to 2*LVL in Combat Terrain.
			</p></td>
		</tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Charge</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>On success, knocks opponent to the ground.  Opponent may defend by make a DEX check at DEX -2 per success.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Grapple</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Opponent is grappled, and may only use Knives, Isolation, or Unarmed Basic Attack; opponent may prevent a grapple by making a STR or DEX check at -2 per success.  Opponent may accept the grapple, and may attempt a free Basic Attack as a defensive maneuver.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Aimed Shot</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Gain +X to hit dice by taking X actions, where is X is no more than your level.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Bash</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Add 3xLVL AP to a type C attack</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Burst</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p/>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Called Shot</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Subtract level from a called shot negative, but may not force negative below zero</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Deadly</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>On success, your next attack deals 1/2 damage, but is now type U.  You gain +X to hit on your next attack, where X is your number of successes. Using Deadly requires at least a rudimentary knowledge of the anatomy of the creature being attacked. If necessary, the GM can require an additional action and appropriate skill-check to determine if Deadly can be used.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Deadly Strike against Giant Claw Shrimp</p>
          </h1>
          <p>Borsephus is attempting to perform a Deadly Rapier strike against a Giant Claw Shrimp. However, the GM does not think that Borsephus would know that the only vulnerable spot on a Giant Claw Shrimp is at the base of the head of the Shrimp, to either side of the dorsal crest. The GM makes Borsephus roll the skill Zoology, which Borsephus does not have. Borsephus fails the roll, thus losing the effect of Deadly for his Rapier attack, but still forced to use the action for Deadly, anyways. That is, Borsephus continues to attack with Deadly Rapier, but unknowingly, does no extra damage.</p>
        </div>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Drawing Cut</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>If you succeed hitting with an S type weapon, opponent may not defend against level subsequent actions against the same weapon.  If the opponent moves, they take one additional hit of damage.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Feint</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>For each success you roll, opponent rolls his defense skill at one less die against your next attack.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Hold/Break</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>If you lost a grapple contest, you may roll again up to level times to retain or break the hold.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Lunge</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>On your next move, you may move extra squares equal to your successes, in a single direction</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Multiple Weapons</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Yes</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>You may attack with one "off-limb" per level, or with different Basic Attacks with the same limb, without spending an action Switching Basic Attacks, if the Basic Attacks are already equipped.  Multiple Weapon does not reduce or eliminate the time it takes to equip a Basic Attack.  At each level of Multiple Weapon, you must choose one Basic Attack that may be used with Multiple Weapon.  Other types of Basic Attacks may not be used with Multiple Weapon.  "Off-limb" attacks are made at -7 + 1 per level.  Different Basic Attacks from the same limb are made with no negative.</p>
        <div class="example">
          <h1 class="title">
            <p>Noah clarifies with an Example</p>
          </h1>
          <p>The minds of men were clouded before... after this example, the dawn of a new Age of Enlightenment!</p>
        </div>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Pin</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>After a P type attack near a reasonable surface, target is now pinned to that surface by the weapon.  Opponent may defend by making a STR check at -2 per success.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Point Blank</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Reduce minimum range by 1 square per level.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Savage</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>If the your attack hits, one die per success on your next attack is considered to have rolled the maximum value on it's first roll.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Pin Shield</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>For each success you roll, opponent may not block with their shield for that many turns.  Opponent is free from this negative if he moves out of your weapon range.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Skewer</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>See Drawing Cut, but for P weapons only.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Stunning Blow</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Target's damage after armor is reduced by half, rounded down.  They must succeed a WIL check -2 per success to stay conscious.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Trickshot</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Reduce cover negative by 1 per success.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Disarm</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>On success, you disarm your opponent.  Opponent my defend by making a DEX check at -2 per success, +1 per extra limb.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Fiendish Maneuver</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Skip up to level actions to add level dice to strike, and +level to damage</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Hurl</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Yes</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Pick one of your Basic Attacks, which is detachable or extendable by some means.  This Basic Attack gains +level squares of range, but is afterward unequipped, and is thrown +level squares, or next to the target on a successful hit.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Snatch Weapon</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>2</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>On success, you take your opponents weapon.  Opponent may defend by making a STR check at -1 per success, +1 per extra limb.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Quick Draw</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>On success, draw a weapon in 0 actions.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Pin Weapon</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>If you hit your opponent, may choose to attack their weapon, dealing no damage.  You and your opponent may not attack with your striking weapon and opponents target weapon for up to level turns.  If opponent breaks the pin by moving away, they automatically take damage from your weapon.  If you otherwise leave weapon range, the pin is lost.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Anticipated Dodge</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Defensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Skip up to level actions on your turn to automatically dodge the same number of attacks from one target.</p>
				<p>This skills requires Dodge. You expect that an attack is incoming and prepare yourself beforehand. When the attack comes, you automatically dodge the attack. This skill has the same restrictions as Dodge. You must spend one action during your turn per uses to do nothing but prepare to perform Anticipated Dodge. At this time you must declare a specific opponent. You must be able to see this opponent. If the declared opponent attacks you before your next turn then you may automatically dodge the attack with no skill roll needed. You may dodge up to LVL attacks in this manner, however they must all be from the same designated opponent.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Parry Projectile</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Defensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>You may parry level missiles and projectiles thrown from hand weapons per turn.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Defend Other</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Defensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>On success, you may defend one target per level, if you are in range of both the target and the attacker, and have clear line of sight to the attacker.</p>
        <p>You are skilled at protecting your comerades in a fight. To use Defend Other you must declare during your turn which of your comerades you are defending. You must be within 10 feet of your comerade and you must meet the conditions stipulated in Dodge as well (though these stipulations do not apply to your comerade). Your comerade must be willing or unconcious for you to defend them. You may choose to defend for that character up to LVL times before your next action. When you do this you are making the defensive roll for the other character. The character being defended may also attempt a defensive maneuver of their own, both of you are still protected by any supernatural effects that may be active and whatever armor you both are wearing. You must choose an interferential defensive maneuver that you know, such as parry, block, preemptive strike, etc. If you use Defend other, then roll the defensive maneuver of your choice. If you succeed then continue as if you were attacked rather than the defender. If you fail on your defensive maneuver roll, then the original target is struck by the attack and you loose your next action.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Dodge</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Defensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>You may dodge level times per turn.  On a successful dodge, you receive no damage.</p>
        <p>You see that an attack is coming at you and you move your body out of the way to avoid it. With this skill a character can totally avoid physical attacks. A successful dodge means that you are not struck by the incoming attack at all. To perform this skill you must be free to move about the combat area. You cannot be bound, in a grapple, or incapacitated. You must be able to see, hear, or otherwise know the attack is incoming. Dodge does not work for certain attacks that automatically strike the target, such as many magic spells. You may not dodge an attack that you do not know about (such as a sneak attack or being shot at from a long distance). You can give yourself a bonus to your Dodge roll by jumping behind cover. If you dodge by throwing yourself to the ground or behind partial cover you get +1 die. Dodging behind any full cover that may be present gives +2 dice.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Ranging</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Defensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>You may skip level actions per turn.  During your defense, you may take a 1 square step in any valid direction, for each action you skipped.  If this would put you out of range of the attack, you are not hit.</p>
        <p>The Martial Artist sees an incoming melee attack and actively strikes at his opponent during his opponent's attack. This reduces the damage dealt by his opponent. Preemptive Block is your defensive maneuver. Roll Preemptive Block and also roll to strike with any melee attack that you could readily make. If you succeed on both of your rolls, then you take only half damage from the incoming attack. (There is no need to contest rolls with the attacker). However, if you fail either roll then you take full damage. Preemptive Block may not be used against ranged or missile attacks. Preemptive Block does not deal damage to your opponent.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Hard Parry</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Defensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>You parry an attack using this parry skill.  Roll a contest of damage.  If you exceed your opponents damage, they may not attack with that weapon on their next action.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Reciprocal Attack</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Defensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>You defend an attack with Reciprocal attack.  If you are hit, you take full damage.  On success, you may attack back, and the attacker may not defend.</p>
				<p>This skill is used instead of defending against a melee attack. The martial artist allows the incoming attack to strike him as though he was not defending at all (and takes full damage from it). Then roll Reciprocal Attack. If you succeed, you then make a surprise counter-attack in place of your defense. The original attacker does not get to roll defense versus the reciprocal attack. The reciprocal attack can be any singular ability the character knows, so long as it can be performed in 1 action or less and the martial artist has the requisite weapon drawn and ready for use. If you fail your roll of Reciprocal Attack, then your counter-attack misses.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Shield</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Defensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Defend using your shield.  You get 1 success automatically.  On a successful defense, add your shields armor to your armor.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Shrug Blow</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>0</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>BLD</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Defensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Roll Shrug Blow at -Damage.  If you succeed, take only 1 damage.  May not be used against U damage.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Close Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Choose one Basic Attack per level.  You may use these Basic Attacks as an Unarmed attack that deals 1d6C damage rather than listed damage.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p>Bind Body</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Combat</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>1</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>3</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>No</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>DEX</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Offensive</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Requires a successful Grapple.  Opponent may not take make any Basic Attacks, or Combat Actions.  Opponent may break the Bind by making a STR or DEX check at -2 per success, or by an opposed Grapple or Bind Body check.  Attacker must re-roll the bind body each turn.  If the Attacker defends, the bind body is immediately released.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
